Whitehurst &amp; Son sundial (1812)    whitehurst & amp ; son sundial ( 1812 ) the whitehurst & son sundial was produced in derby in 1812 by the nephew of john whitehurst . it is now in the derby museum and art gallery . this is a precise sundial which tells not only local apparent time but also local mean time using a scale on it . it is accurate to the nearest minute . the whitehurst family was known in derby as skillful mechanics . john whitehurst ( 1713–1788 ) was born in congleton , but came to derby where he became a watch and clock maker . he moved to london to assume the post of inspector of weights . his nephew continued the business under the name of whitehurst & son . the family business was known for their turret clocks . to construct a sundial , one must understand the geometry of the solar system , and particularly how the sun will cast a shadow onto a flat surface , in this case a horizontal surface . each day over a yearly cycle the shadow will be different from the day before , and the shadow is specific to the location of the dial , particularly its latitude . the dial is designed to tell local apparent time so the longitude is not important . in this case , noon will be at the point when the sun is highest in sky and due south , and standard time would be when the sun was due south at another point such as the royal observatory at greenwich . derby is at 1° 28′ 46.2″ west of greenwich , so the sun is approximately 5 mins and 52.05 s later in reaching noon . and also when telling the time , we must consider the equation of time . that is to say , as the earth moves around the sun in a slight ellipse , day length slightly varies everyday . for example , the difference from the average becomes up to 16 minutes in november and february . this equation of time had been really unknown for a long time until people started comparing sundials with mechanical clocks . if a clock ignores this difference , it measures average time . if a clock is re balanced each day to make them correspond with the natural cycle , it measures local mean time . a fixed noon and fixed day are essential for railways timetabling , so greenwich mean time was adopted . in the case of midland railway , it was by january 1848 .