Lombe's Mill    lombe 's mill lombe 's mill was the first successful silk throwing mill in england . it was built in an island on the river derwent in derby . john lombe visited piedmont in 1717 and studied details of the italian silk throwing machines- the `` filatoio '' , and the `` torcitoio '' . then , he returned to england with some italian craftsmen , and built the mill . george sorocold designed the building . lombe 's mill was built next to thomas cotchett 's 1704 mill on the west bank of the river derwent in derby . at this point a weir had been constructed across the river and the mill was built on an island downstream , which separated the river from the tail race of three corn mills . derby was an important place , because the river had a fast flow and a6 road ( from london to carlisle ) crossed the river here . this mill is significant as it was the first successful silk throwing mill in england , and probably the first fully mechanized factory in the world . thomas cotchett built the first mill in derby in 1704 , but it was unsuccessful . so john lombe visited piedmont in 1716 to see the successful silk throwing mill there . this was an early example of industrial spying . he returned to derby with the knowledge and a group of italians . he and his half brother thomas lombe ( born 1685 ) instructed george sorocold to build a mill to his design and fitted it with the new machines . it was built to the south of cotchetts mill . thomas lombe was given a 14 year patent to protect the design of the throwing machines he used . this displeased the king of sardinia , and he stopped exporting suitable raw silk . it is speculated that he was responsible for john lombes mysterious death six years later in 1722. his elder brother , thomas lombe took over the business . when the patents lost effect in 1732 , other mills were built in stockport and macclesfield . to the north of the powered italian works an unpowered doubling shop was built- this happened before 1739. the mill was sold in 1739 to thomas wilson , and an inventory of this time is still exists .