Abraham Quintanilla, Jr.    abraham quintanilla , jr. abraham issac quintanilla , jr. ( born february 20 , 1939 ) is a mexican american singer-songwriter and record producer . he was selena 's manager throughout her life . abraham and his close friends formed a mexican american doo-wop band called , `` los dinos '' beginning in the 1950s . `` los dinos '' took to the road everywhere their music was much appreciated . through struggles , los dinos sighed numerous minor texas based record companies . by the 1960s los dinos switched their musical styles to tejano music due to their low popularity . abraham quite the band to tend to his family full-time soon after his third and final child , selena was born in 1971. abraham became managing his children 's music abilities , soon after his daughter selena had the ability to sing high notes in perfect pitch tune and memorization . in the late 1970s , abraham formed a new group including his three children under the `` selena y los dinos '' title . abraham created a mexican american restaurant in 1982 , including his musical gifted children , who performed altogether on the dance floor . unfortunately , due to the low economy the restaurant was forced to close before it 's first year . by 1984 , abraham became the children 's manager full-time for live concerts , performance on television shows , and so forth with the help of the `` selena tour bus '' . in 1993 , abraham opened up his own recording studio , q-productions which he managed with various artists . in the same year , the `` selena fan club '' was formed from yolanda saldivar who later took selena 's life . in 1995 , abraham was no longer the manager of selena and her band selena y los dinos due to an upcoming crossover album that would 've impelled selena into the main strain american pop . on march 31 , 1995 , abraham 's youngest child , selena was murdered at the age of 23. soon after her death , abraham and his family decided to release the selena foundation a charitable organization which would help children alike in crisis , due to selena 's popularity to young children .