Muammar al-Gaddafi     muammar muhammad abu minyar al-gaddafi ( `` '' ) ( c. 1942 - 20 october 2011 ) was a libyan politician . he was the ruler of libya from 1969 to 2011. muammar al-gaddafi was born in a tent near qasr abu hadi . his family came from a small tribal group called qadhadhfa . his family were arabized berber in heritage . he joined the libyan military in 1961 ; the military was one of the only ways for lower class libyans like him to rise in social status . al-gaddafi was a colonel . he had ruled libya from september 1 , 1969 to august 23 , 2011. gaddafi became head of state after removing king idris from power in a 1969 bloodless coup . after the coup , gaddafi started the libyan arab republic . he was one of the longest-serving rulers in history who was not a king or a queen , because he had ruled for more than 41 years . gaddafi used arab socialist and arab nationalist ideas . he published a book about his philosophical views in 1975. this book is commonly known as `` the green book '' . in 1977 , he left the power of libya , and continued playing role of revolutionary , people called him the `` brother leader and guide of the revolution '' .in the 1980s , he developed chemical weapons , because of it critics called libya a pariah state . a dutch investigation found that gaddafi had built up a `` billion-dollar empire '' , from assets in an international company in the oil industry . it also claims that his assets are scattered throughout much of europe , despite no trace or proof for even 1 billion have been found . gaddafi had a strong interest in geo-political control , was a firm supporter of oapec and led a pan-african campaign for a united states of africa . in 1986 libya was bombed by us , home of gaddafi was targeted but he survived . bombing was condemned by many nations and also by un . in 1992 , sanctions were imposed on libya by a few western countries . after these events , gaddafi started to have closer economic and security relations with the west . he cooperated with investigations into alleged libyan anti-western acts , by 1999 he offered to dismantle weapon of mass destruction of libya , which would be inspected in 2003. as a result , the un sanctions were lifted in the same year .