Delaware Route 82     delaware route 82 ( de 82 ) is a state highway in the northwest suburbs of wilmington in new castle county , delaware . the route runs from de 52 near greenville to the pennsylvania border near yorklyn . there it continues as pennsylvania route 82 ( pa 82 ) . the route passes through areas of trees and fields in the north part of new castle county . a lot of the route passes next to the red clay creek . all of the route is a part of the red clay valley scenic byway , made in 2005. de 82 was first given its number by 1952. it was signed onto the same road it is on today . in 2010 , deldot had planned to remove the route number . but it did not happen because people did not want the route number to be removed . de 82 heads to the west of de 52 near greenville as campbell road . the road has two lanes cars can travel on without a median , which is a physical divider between the travel lanes in each direction . east of de 52 , the road continues to de 100 as kirk road . the road passes areas of homes with trees and fields . then it crosses over the hoopes reservoir . not far after the reservoir , de 82 makes a left turn onto new london road to go south . the route passes through large areas of trees , turning to the west as it makes many turns . the road goes near more fields and homes in a rural area before coming to an intersection with mt . cuba road . here , de 82 goes northwest on creek road and passes next to the red clay creek and the wilmington and western railroad on a road with many trees . it makes more turns and goes over the creek two times before crossing the railroad two times . in this area , the route passes the ashland nature center . the route comes to the community of yorklyn , where the route turns southwest for a short time and passes a few buildings in rural areas . after making a turn to the northwest to go on creek road , de 82 heads north next to the red clay creek . the wilmington and western railroad turns to the southwest away from the road . a short distance past yorklyn , the route comes to the pennsylvania border , where it becomes pa 82 and goes toward kennett square , pennsylvania . all of de 82 is a part of the red clay valley scenic byway , a scenic byway ( road ) name given to many roads in the red clay creek valley .