Korie Homan     korie homan is a retired dutch wheelchair tennis player . homan was part of the current paralympic doubles champion team . homan is the former australian open champion . she has won all the grand slam doubles titles . in 2009 she complete the grand slam with esther vergeer . in 2011 homan retired from playing because of a wrist injury . homan was born to jan and gina willem . homan has two older sisters . at the age of 12 homan was involved in a car accident . in 2003 , when she finished school she had her leg cut off . homan first appeared on the wheelchair tennis tour in 2003. by the end of the season she had reached number 23. homan did not have a ranking at the start of the year . in 2004 at the age of 17 homan won her first masters title . she won the doubles with jiske griffioen . at the 2005 us open homan reached her first grand slam finals . she reached both the singles and the doubles final . in the singles she lost in straight sets to vergeer . but she won the doubles with vergeer . in 2006 homan won her first two series one titles . she won both the singles and doubles titles in livorno . homan also reached her second grand slam doubles final . at the us open maaike smit was her team mate . they lost in straight sets to vergeer and griffioen . the pair also lost the final of the masters . homan started 2007 by losing in the final of the australian open doubles . her partner in the event was florence gravellier . they lost the final in a match tiebreaker . at the us open homan was joined by sharon walraven . the pair reached the final before losing . homan also had final defeats at the super series events of the british , japan and us opens . homan lost both finals at the masters . in 2008 homan lost both the singles and doubles finals at the australian and french opens . she also lost in the singles final at the masters . at the paralympic games homan won a gold medal in the doubles event . she also won a silver medal in the singles . in the final she became the first player in over five years to hold match point against vergeer . homan 's last competition was the 2010 australian open . in july 2011 homan said that she had retired because of a wrist injury .