Dork Diaries     dork diaries is a series of books written by rachel renee russell . these books tell about the daily problems that 14-year-old nikki maxwell has . there are 11 books in this series . in the diaries , nikki writes about her annoying parents and little sister , the problems she has with a popular girl named mackenzie hollister , and her crush brandon roberts . over a million people around the world read these books , and it has won the new york times bestselling series award . in the first book , nikki had always wanted an iphone so she could become a popular girl at school . but when she moves before she starts eighth grade , nikki hoped her mom bought her an iphone as a back to school present . she becomes very disappointed that her mom got her a diary instead . so when she starts eighth grade due on a scholarship her dad got her due to his bug extermination contract with the school , she does n't want anyone to know she only attends the school due to her dad 's extermination contract . she is devastated to have a locker next to the most popular girl in school , mackenzie hollister , who makes nasty comments about other girls . so when she goes to class one day , mackenzie hands her an invitation to her big birthday bash . nikki thought she was going to be invited to the party , but mackenzie wanted her to pass it to her best friend , jessica , who sits behind nikki . mackenzie yells at nikki and calls her an `` uncivilized gorilla . '' but things get brighter when nikki finds out about the school 's annual art competition , in which the grand prize is $ 500 . she went to the office to fill out a form , but she fills out a paper to sign up to be a library shelving assistant . nikki eventually does sign up for the art competition , and enters a watercolor she painted in art camp . the day the art is due , her painting is destroyed by her dad 's van . so her friends and crush team up to make an art project from pictures of tattoos nikki did with her lucky pen . her art wins the art contest , and nikki is excited to receive the $ 500 .