The Black Cauldron     the black cauldron is a fantasy novel written by lloyd alexander . it was published in 1965 as the second book in the chronicles of prydain series . `` the black cauldron '' was awarded a newbery medal . `` the black cauldron '' centers around taran , an assistant pig-keeper who lives in the fantasy land of prydain . the book begins with a meeting of many leaders . they make plans to stop the evil arawn from taking over prydain . the leaders decide to steal the black cauldron , a powerful tool , from arawn . prince gwydion , the war lord of prydain , leads a band of people into annuvin , arawn 's country . when there , they learn that the cauldron has already been stolen . the fair folk ( fairies ) tell the group that the witches of morva stole the cauldron . prince ellidyr , a poor youngest son , sneaks away from the group so that he can steal the cauldron for himself . the rest of the group follows to save him from arawn 's soldiers , but are attacked themselves . in the battle , fflewddur fflam and doli are separated from the group . also , adaon , son of the chief bard , is wounded very badly . before he dies , he passes on a brooch to taran . the brooch has magical powers and taran uses it to find fflewddur and doli . they continue to morva , where taran trades the brooch for the cauldron . the group then tries to smash it , but the witches tell them it can only be destroyed when a living person dies in it willingly . on the way back , ellidyr attacks the group and steals the cauldron . the group is later found by king morgant and his men , who have captured ellidyr and beaten him . morgant plans to use the cauldron to rule prydain . morgant ties up the entire group and offers to free them if taran will join his service . while they are talking , doli turns invisible and frees the whole group . during the fight that follows , ellidyr throws himself into the cauldron , destroying it . king smoit then comes and attacks morgant , killing him . the group is rescued .