Maslenitsa     maslenitsa is one of the most popular and cheerful religious holidays in russia . it originated from pagan times before russia was converted to christianity . at first , this holiday was a symbol of the spring solstice but nowadays it is considered a christian holiday which goes right before the great lent . during maslenitsa people enjoy almost any food , except meat . usually maslenitsa lasts for seven days and on the last day of this holiday people burn a doll which is made of branches and straw and dressed in bright clothes . this doll is called “ maslenitsa ” and it symbolizes the cold and severe winter . by burning “ maslenitsa ” people say goodbye to winter and greet a warm spring . every day of maslenitsa plays a great role . on monday people greet the holiday with games such as sledding , snowballs , riding on swings and so on . russian people believe that happiness and joy which they feel during this day will accompany them throughout a year . on tuesday people play games and bake pancakes which are called `` blini '' . blini are the most popular food which is made during this holiday . these pancakes have a round form and symbolize the sun and warmth . on wednesday people usually visit their friends and relatives and treat each other with blini . on thursday by tradition people try to drive away winter by riding on horses around the village or around the places they live . friday is usually called “ mothers ’ -in-law evenings ” because sons-in-law come to visit their mothers-in-law . on merry saturday everyone goes to visit their relatives . all people drink and eat as much as they want and play different games . sunday is the last day of the holiday . it is also called the `` sunday of forgiveness '' because on this day everyone asks forgiveness from relatives and friends for offences and mistakes committed against them . the most appropriate answer is “ god will forgive ” . after that people usually sing songs , dance and at the end of the day they burn the doll .