Boris Godunov     boris fyodorovich godunov ( , c. 1551 – ) was a famous tsar ( emperor ) of russia . he ruled as a regent from about 1585 to 1598 and then as tsar from 1598 to 1605. in many ways he was a good tsar , but he had not inherited the throne . he became more and more anxious that a pretender would come who would claim to be dmitri , the son of the previous tsar , ivan iv ( ivan the terrible ) and try to get the throne . dmitri had actually been murdered . the story of boris godunov is told in pushkin ’ s play `` boris godunov '' and in mussorgsky ’ s opera `` boris godunov '' , but the story told by pushkin and mussorgsky is probably not exactly how it really happened . both pushkin and mussorgsky had read a book on russian history written by the court historian karamzin , written in 1803. karamzin describes godunov as a powerful tsar who was also a weak human being , but he changed some historical facts to fit in with this theory . boris came from a boyar family ( i.e . they belonged to the nobility ) . his parents were dead and he was brought up at the court of the tsar in moscow . the tsar who ruled was ivan iv , known as ivan the terrible who really was a very cruel ruler . he ruled for more than 50 years . boris was very close to the royal family . one of the tsar ’ s sons , fyodor , who was not very intelligent . he married irina , the sister of boris . the tsar killed his eldest son . when the tsar died he had a son dmitry who was only two years old . dmitri was not allowed to become tsar , because he was the son of ivan ’ s 7th marriage , and the rules of the russian orthodox church were that no one should be allowed to marry more than three times ( of course , no one had dared to try to stop ivan from all those marriages ) . so fyodor became tsar fyodor i. he was not bright enough to rule himself . we would probably say that he was mentally disabled , or that he had “ learning difficulties ” . boris therefore became regent : he ruled for him . some boyars were against boris , but boris somehow managed to silence them . in some ways boris did a good job . he made russia a safer place , fighting back the tatars in the south and making strong contacts with europe . he built towns and fortresses , made sure that western siberia was firmly under moscow ’ s control , and made the head of the muscovite church a patriarch . in 1598 fyodor died and irina should have become tsarina , but she refused and went to live in a convent . the boyars voted for boris to become tsar .