Hugo (movie)    hugo ( movie ) hugo is a 2011 american 3d adventure drama movie that is based on brian selznick 's novel `` the invention of hugo cabret '' . the movie is about a boy who lives alone in a paris railway station and the enigmatic owner of a toy shop there . it was directed by martin scorsese , while the screenwriter was john logan . it is a co-production of graham king 's gk films and johnny depp 's infinitum nihil . it stars asa butterfield , ben kingsley , sacha baron cohen , ray winstone , emily mortimer , and jude law . `` hugo '' is scorsese 's first movie to be shot in 3d . in 1931 , hugo cabret , a 12-year-old boy who lives with his father , a widowed , but kind and devoted master clockmaker in paris . hugo 's father takes him to see movies and loves the movies of georges méliès best of all . hugo 's father is burned alive in a museum fire , and hugo is taken away by his uncle , an alcoholic watchmaker who is responsible for maintaining the clocks in the railway station of gare montparnasse . his uncle teaches him to take care of the clocks , then disappears . hugo lives between the walls of the station , maintaining the clocks , stealing food and working on his father 's most ambitious project : repairing a broken automaton – a mechanical man who is supposed to write with a pen . hugo steals mechanical parts in the station to repair the automaton , but he is caught by a toy store owner who takes away hugo 's blueprints for the automaton . the automaton is missing one part – a heart–shaped key . convinced that the automaton contains a message from his father , hugo goes to desperate lengths to fix the machine . he gains the assistance of isabelle , a girl close to his age and the goddaughter of the toy shop owner . he introduces isabelle to the movies , which her godfather has never let her see . isabelle turns out to have the key to the automaton . when they use the key to activate the automaton , it produces a drawing of a movie scene hugo remembers his father telling him about . they discover that the movie was created by georges méliès , isabelle 's godfather , an early – but now neglected and disillusioned – cinema legend , and that the automaton was a beloved creation of his , from his days as a magician . in the end , the children reconnect georges with his past and with a new generation of cinema aficionados who have come to appreciate his work