The Medium     the medium is a two-act opera with words and music by gian carlo menotti . it was commissioned by columbia university . its first performance was there on may 8 , 1946. the opera 's first professional production was presented on a double bill with menotti 's `` the telephone '' . this occurred at the heckscher theater , new york city , on february 18-20 , 1947 by the ballet society . the broadway production took place on may 1 , 1947 , at the ethel barrymore theater with the same cast . in 1951 , menotti directed , with the help of filmmaker alexander hammid , a movie version made to resemble film noir . it starred anna maria alberghetti . a live television production starring marie powers took place on december 12 , 1948 on the tv series `` studio one '' . `` the medium 's parlor '' monica , madame flora 's daughter , and toby , a mute servant boy rescued from `` the streets of budapest '' play dress-up . when madame flora , or `` baba '' as they call her , arrives home drunk , she violently chastises them for not preparing for that night 's seance . soon the guests arrive , mr. and mrs. gobineau , regulars , and the widow mrs. nolan who is attending for the first time . with madame flora in a trance in her chair , a fake seance is held where mrs. nolan speaks with what she thinks is her deceased sixteen-year-old daughter but is really monica behind a screen . as monica disappears , mrs. nolan rushes toward the figure and is restrained by the gobineaus . when order is restored , mr. and mrs. gobineau `` communicate '' with their deceased two-year-old son mickey who does nothing but laugh . after they say goodbye to him , madame flora `` suddenly , with a loud gasp ... clutches at her throat with both hands . '' she feels a phantom hand clutching her throat and is `` terror-stricken . '' after demanding that the guests leave , she calls for monica and tells her what she felt , eventually blaming toby who was in the other room the whole time . in an effort to calm baba 's drunken rage toward toby , monica sings her the dark lullaby `` the black swan '' which is interrupted by a voice that baba hears causing her to fly into a terrified rage at toby for not telling her where the voice is coming from . the act ends with monica again singing the lullaby while baba recites her hail marys .