Preamble     a preamble is an introduction to a document that describes the documents purpose . the word comes from `` pre '' meaning `` before '' and `` amble '' meaning walk . a preamble can contain facts about the document . the preamble of a law is not part of the law but explains its purpose . the preamble of a book is called a `` preface '' . the preamble of a musical composition is a prelude or overture . the preamble of a wikipedia article walks before the sections , and is called the `` lede '' or `` introduction '' . a data packet has a preamble which the system needs but which goes before the data that the user will use . one of the world 's most famous preambles is the one in the united states declaration of independence in 1776 : we hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights , that among these are life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . — that to secure these rights , governments are instituted among men , deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed , — that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends , it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it , and to institute new government , laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form , as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness . prudence , indeed , will dictate that governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes ; and accordingly all experience hath shewn that mankind are more disposed to suffer , while evils are sufferable than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed . but when a long train of abuses and usurpations , pursuing invariably the same object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism , it is their right , it is their duty , to throw off such government , and to provide new guards for their future security .