Raid at Cabanatuan     the raid at cabanatuan , also known as the great raid , was a rescue of allied prisoners of war ( pows ) and civilians from a japanese prisoner of war camp near cabanatuan city , in the philippines . with the landing and advance of general douglas macarthur in late 1944 , it was feared the japanese would move the prisoners to japan or kill them . on january 30 , 1945 , during world war ii , united states army rangers , alamo scouts , and filipino guerrillas liberated 511 prisoners from the camp . the daring raid is still studied by army rangers today as a classic example . after the attack on pearl harbor by the empire of japan on december 7 , 1941 , the united states declared war on japan and its allies . at the same time the japanese also attacked the american bases at guam , wake island and the philippines . while guam and wake island soon fell , filipino and u.s. forces resisted in the philippines until early may 1942. by this time , the japanese controlled nearly all of southeast asia . the bataan peninsula and the island of corregidor were the only remaining allied strongholds in the region . on april 9 , 1942 about 11,800 american , 66,000 filipino and 1,000 chinese-filipinos surrendered to the japanese . they were starving , sick and fatigued , yet were forced to march 60 miles ( 97 km ) with many dying along the way . this was the infamous bataan death march . many also escaped and joined guerrilla forces hiding in the mountains . about 79,000 survived and were imprisoned at camp o'donnell . the american and filipino forces on island of corregidor surrendered on may 6 , 1942. the approximately 79,000 forces captured on corregidor were not a part of the death march . they were loaded onto cargo ships and taken to manila . there they were marched through the streets as a celebration of the japanese victory . they were then sent to cabanatuan camp number 1 near cabanatuan city . they were joined by other american prisoners from camp o'donnell .