Fatima Naoot     fatima naoot ( ar : فاطمة ناعوت ) is an egyptian writer and poet . in january 2016 , the egyptian government sentenced naoot to jail for 3 years after she wrote on facebook about killing sheep for the eid holiday . naoot was a candidate for the egyptian parliament . naoot wrote several books of poetry and a book of poetry analysis . she also translated collections of poems from english into arabic . fatma naoot always seeks for freedom without any authority even if this authority will belong to any religion . in october she published a post on facebook was describing `` the eid al-adha ’ s tradition of slaughtering sheep as the “ greatest massacre committed by human beings. ” then one candidate from parliament said that `` her aim is to insult islam '' . thus she wrote through ahram online report `` that humans justified their lust for killing and enjoying the smell of cooking game by attempting to bestow a divine meaning to their actions. ” and because of the law that added in 1982 a legislation which stated that there is from six months to five years and fines of le500 to le1000 for anyone who uses religion to promote , through speech , writing , or any other medium , extremist ideas with the aim of spreading discord or to belittle one of the monotheistic religions or their different sects , or to harm national unity . she put in jail for 3 years and fined 20.000 le . although she said in front of the court that `` she did not aim to insult islam , but she just explained her point of view . naoot said through middle east online `` i ’ m not sad about the sentencing as i don ’ t care about going to jail . i ’ m sad that the efforts of reformists have been wasted , ” . as a result , the arab network for human rights information issued a statement which is `` “ the recent surge in the prosecution of opinion makers comes in conjunction with a fierce security campaign launched by security bodies against freedom of opinion and expression , with the aim of narrowing the overall climate of freedom of opinion and expression . such a matter , in turn , makes egypt one of the most arab countries that show hostility to freedom of expression as well as press freedom , especially that about 59 journalists have remained in prison so far. ” fatma is not a political figure , she is an egyptian writer , poet , translator and journalist who always says her point of view .