Titles of Nobility Amendment     the titles of nobility amendment is a proposed amendment to the united states constitution . it was approved by the 11th congress on may 1 , 1810 , and submitted to the state legislatures for ratification . it would strip united states citizenship from any citizen who accepted a title of nobility from a foreign country . on two occasions between 1812 and 1816 it only needed ratifying by two states to become a valid part of the constitution . congress did not set a time limit for its ratification , so the amendment is still pending before the states . now , since the number of states has increased , ratification by an additional 26 states would be needed for this amendment to be adopted . this proposed amendment would amplify both , which prohibits the federal government from issuing titles of nobility or honor , and , which prohibits the states from issuing them . there is speculation that the congress proposed the amendment in response to the 1803 marriage of napoleon bonaparte 's younger brother , jerome , and betsy patterson of baltimore , maryland . she gave birth to a son for whom she wanted aristocratic recognition from france . the child , named jérôme napoleon bonaparte , was not born in the united states , but in great britain on july 7 , 1805. nevertheless , he would have held u.s. citizenship through his mother . in turn , his son , charles joseph bonaparte , was born in 1851 and died 1921. he graduated from harvard law school , and became secretary of the navy and then , in the theodore roosevelt administration , attorney-general – and created the fbi . another theory is that his mother actually desired a title of nobility for herself . she is referred to as the `` duchess of baltimore '' in many texts written about the amendment . the marriage had been annulled in 1805. this was well before the amendment 's proposal by the 11th congress . nonetheless , representative nathaniel macon of north carolina is recorded to have said that `` he considered the vote on this question as deciding whether or not we were to have members of the legion of honor in this country . ''