Gunsmith     a gunsmith is someone who makes and or designs guns . the job of a gunsmith is similar , but not the same as an armorer . the origin of the word gunsmith dates back to the 1580s . the first firearms can be dated to about the 1200s in china . in europe , the first gun barrels were made by p italian craftsmen . but gunsmithing was new in the middle ages . for a long time they did not have their own guilds and many joined blacksmiths ’ guilds . by the mid-1400s , there were enough gunsmiths to form their own guilds . one of the first was in 1463 in suhl , germany . england did not develop gunsmiths as quickly as other european countries and to change this , king henry viii invited leading gunsmiths in europe to come live and work in england . many accepted and not long afterwards more gun shops began appearing in england . several appeared in london near the tower of london , which held the country 's stockpile of guns . soon they were training english citizens in this new trade . before the american revolutionary war in the american colonies , gunsmithing was a time-consuming process . gunsmiths were generally gun makers who repaired their own weapons for their customers . these gunmakers came to the american colonies along with other craftsmen from england , and later from germany and switzerland . these were countries with long histories of gun making . gunsmiths learned their trade by becoming an apprentice to an established gunsmith or gun maker . they worked from their adolescence into early adulthood before they could open a shop of their own . handguns were relatively cheap and were made in large shops in england . so american gunsmiths repaired and modified imported pistols . however , muskets and rifles were not imported as much and local gunsmiths would custom make these for their customers . their work included carving stocks , engraving metal pieces , and forging gun barrels . it could take as many as 400 hours to create guns by hand . soon entirely new guns were created such as the pennsylvania rifle ( later called the `` kentucky rifle '' ) . this was the product of german gunsmiths who immigrated to pennsylvania in the early 18th century . it was lighter , longer and more accurate than european designs . the rifle soon became the favorite of colonial settlers and frontiersmen .