Impressionist music     the impressionist movement in music was a movement in europen classical music . it was mostly in france . it began in the late 19th century and ended in the middle of the 20th century . there were two very famous composers of this movement , claude debussy and maurice ravel . debussy actually did not like the term 'impressionist ' in his works . english impressionist musicians include cyril scott ( 1879–1970 ) and john ireland ( 1879–1962 ) . other well-known composers labeled impressionist include paul dukas , gabriel fauré , manuel de falla , isaac albéniz , giacomo puccini , leoš janáček , alexander scriabin and kurt atterberg the first pieces of impressionist music were probably composed by franz liszt , the first such piece for orchestra is probably prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune , composed by claude debussy , between 1892 and 1894. the impressionism of debussy is achieved through a number of means the overall aim of which were to weaken the teleological ( purpose driven ) harmonic structure of classical ( functional ) western harmony . in functional harmony a path is set that leads inexorably to a final cadence at which the tonic is clearly affirmed , dissonance whether through the use of suspensions or 7th chords etc is correctly prepared and then resolved creating a flow of tension and release . by contrast , many of debussy 's dissonances simply flow onto another dissonance in chains of seventh chords etc . another way that debussy holds tonality in suspense is through the use of the pentatonic and whole-tone scales in both melody and harmony . the story of modernist music has been a response to the extreme chromaticism of radical romantic composers such as wagner and liszt . the ones who felt compelled to complete the task took music to the chromatic extreme of atonality , others found ways to continue to write music using recognisable harmonic sequences and tonal ( therefore recallable ) melody by emancipating the dissonance and freeing it from it 's functional straightjacket . debussy played a massive part in developing the vocabulary for this kind of composition . all non-atonal composers of the modernist era owe a debt to debussy , including stravinsky , bartok , messiaen and possibly even steve reich .