Padlock     a padlock is a type of portable lock that has a u-shaped shackle that will not come apart from the body of the lock unless the correct key is inserted or the correct combination is dialed . the u-shape of the lock allows for a wide variety of uses . typically the padlock is used to lock two things together , for example , a door and its frame , two or more chains , or a chain and a fixed object . padlocks are not recommended for high-security applications because the shackle is easily cut with a bolt cutter or hacksaw . some newer padlocks have hardened boron alloy shackles or shrouded ( hidden or covered ) shackles to make them more difficult to cut . the combination padlock is usually made with a metal `` can '' with three tumblers inside connected to a dial on the front . the mechanism is very similar to that used in safes . when the correct combination is entered , the notches on the tumblers line up and allow a latch to fall into the notches , releasing the shackle . combination locks of this type are not recommended for outdoor use because the can can fill up with rain water and cause it to rust . the laminated padlock is constructed from a series of metal plates that are riveted together . the shackle of most padlocks is made from hardened steel , although more expensive padlocks may have boron alloy steels to make them more difficult to cut . inexpensive padlocks usually have a shackle made of ordinary steel . corrosion-resistant padlocks usually have a brass or stainless steel shackle although these materials have low hardness and are easily cut with bolt-cutters . the material that the shackle is made of is usually stamped in the center of the shackle . for example , a hardened steel shackle will be stamped `` hardened '' or a boron alloy shackle will be stamped `` boron alloy '' . alloy steels with appropriate heat treating provide much higher cutting resistance to bolt-cutters . alloy steel shackles are plated with another metal such as nickel or chrome to protect them from rust . the body of the padlock is usually also plated . brass and stainless steel padlocks do not need plating , although they are sometimes plated anyway for appearance .