Arab–Israeli conflict     the arab–israeli conflict is a term used to describe the political tensions and open hostilities between the arab countries of the middle east and north africa and the state of israel . the conflict has been around since 1948. arab-israeli conflict began from earlier tensions between the arab and jewish communities in british mandatory palestine , with the rise of two nationalist movements - zionist movement among jews and palestinian arab nationalism among the arabs . the ethnic conflict in mandatory palestine was also a result of the collapse of the ottoman empire , which created tension over the division and ownership of the land . while , the land that the jewish people saw as their historical homeland of the land of israel , the pan-arab movement saw as palestine belonging to the arabs and in the pan-islamic context , in territory regarded as muslim lands . the modern conflict started with the 1948 arab-israeli war in parallel with the creation of state of israel by the jews . later , on the course of the 1948 war , the all-palestine government was created in gaza strip by the arab league , as an arab palestinian state . while israel successfully passed the 1948 war , the all-palestine government was relocated to cairo in egypt and was not allowed to return to gaza gradually losing its importance , until completely cancelled in 1959 by the egyptian president nasser . in 1964 , another palestinian political organization was formed by yasser arafat ( named palestinian liberation organization ) , and became the most important palestinian movement . in 1967 , arab countries and israel fought the six day war , resulting in israeli takeover of gaza strip and sinai peninsula from egypt , west bank from jordan and golan heights from syria . shortly , jordan , egypt and plo began a low-level war of attrition , which lasted from 1967 to 1970 with no significant benefits to none of the sides . in 1973 , another major war , the yom kippur war , was started by egypt and syria to regain the territory lost in the six day war , egypt liberated part of the sinai and syria was pushed back to damascus . egypt and israel both claimed victory and till now historians argue as to whom the victory belongs to .