Israeli-Lebanese conflict     the israeli–lebanese conflict describes a series of related military clashes involving israel , lebanon , and syria , as well as various non-state militias acting from within lebanon . the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) recruited militants in lebanon from among the families of palestinian refugees who had been expelled or fled due to the creation of israel in 1948. by 1968 , the plo and israel were committing cross border attacks against each other . after the plo leadership and its fatah brigade were expelled from jordan for fomenting a revolt , they entered lebanon and the cross-border violence increased . meanwhile , demographic tensions over the lebanese national pact lead to the lebanese civil war ( 1975–1990 ) . israel 's 1978 invasion of lebanon pushed the plo north of the litani river , but the plo continued their campaign against israel . israel invaded lebanon again in 1982 and forcibly expelled the plo . israel withdrew to a slim borderland buffer zone , held with the aid of proxy militants in the south lebanon army ( sla ) . in 1985 , a lebanese shi'te resistance movement sponsored by iran , calling itself hezbollah , called for armed struggle to end the israel occupation of lebanese territory . when the lebanese civil war ended and other warring factions agreed to disarm , hezbollah and the sla refused . combat with hezbollah weakened israeli resolve and led to a collapse of the sla and an israeli withdrawal in 2000 to their side of the un designated border . citing israeli control of the shebaa farms territory , hezbollah continued cross border attacks intermittently over the next six years . hezbollah now sought freedom for lebanese citizens in israeli prisons and successfully used the tactic of capturing israeli soldiers as leverage for a prisoner exchange in 2004. the capturing of two israeli soldiers by hezbollah ignited the 2006 lebanon war . its ceasefire called for the disarmament of hezbollah and the remaining armed camps of the plo , and for lebanon to control its southern border militarily for the first time in four decades .