Bob Probert     robert alan probert ( april 20 , 1985 – july 5 , 2010 ) was a canadian professional ice hockey right winger . probert played a total of 1,016 games in the national hockey league ( nhl ) . he played for the detroit red wings and the chicago blackhawks . probert was known for being a fighter and enforcer , as well as being one half of the `` bruise brothers '' with teammate joey kocur , during the late 1980s and early 1990s . probert retired from playing ice hockey in 2002 to join the blackhawks radio broadcasting team . he finished his career fourth on the nhl 's all-time list with 3,300 penalty minutes notched . after his retirement , probert ran into drug and legal problems . on february 05 , 2003 , he entered rehab to try and beat his addiction . he was arrested on june 4 , 2004 after he allegedly parked his bmw suv on the wrong side of the street and got into an altercation over drugs with bystanders . many police officers got involved and probert had to be subdued with a taser and stun guns . on july 5 , 2010 , while boating on lake st. clair with his children , father-in-law , and mother-in-law , probert experienced `` severe chest pain '' and collapsed . his father-in-law dan parkinson , the cornwall , ontario , chief of police , attempted cpr to save his life . he was taken to windsor regional hospital 's metropolitan campus and was pronounced dead . his funeral services were held july 9 , 2010 , in windsor , ontario . it was attended by many of his former teammates and rivals including dino ciccarelli , tie domi , gerard gallant , doug gilmour , stu grimson , joey kocur , brad mccrimmon , darren mccarty and steve yzerman , as well as the red wings general manager ken holland and owners mike and marian ilitch . his eulogy was delivered by yzerman . his brain was donated to the sports legacy institute to help researchers that are studying the effects of concussions and other sports-related head injuries . in february 2011 , the researchers announced at boston university that they had found evidence of chronic traumatic encephalopathy in probert 's brain .