Zhejiang University     zhejiang university , in hangzhou city , zhejiang province , is one of the most famous and oldest universities in china . the chinese also call it `` zheda '' or `` zju '' for short . known as the “ cambridge of the east ” , it is one of the universities that was involved in project 211 and project 985 in the first group , and also a member of c9 league . what 's more , it also be selected as the member of the project 111 and project zhufeng the current zhejiang university was formed officially in 1998 , but the main root of it , qiushi academy , dates back to 1897 in qing dynasty . at that time , qiushi acedamy was one of the earliest modern academies of higher education in china . during 1901 to 1927 , the name of qiushi academy was changed a lot of times as zhejiang academy , zhejiang advanced college , yuying academy , etc . in 1928 , it was officially named as national zhejiang university . after the war of resistance against japan broke out in 1937 , zhejiang university started to move to the west of china , which is called “ long march of culture ” . under the leading of chu kochen , zhejiang university was directed towards one of the leading universities in china and attained a series of achievement in teaching and researching . and in 1944 , it was honored as “ oriental cambridge ” by joseph needham , the famous british scholar who visited zhejiang university twice . as the resistance against japan went to the end , zhejiang university moved back to hangzhou at 1946 and in 1951 it already became a comprehensive university . in 1952 , due to the nationwide renovation of educational systems , zhejiang university was restructured and separated into 15 institutions . up to the four universities with the same semester merged into the new zhejiang university in 1998 , zhejiang university , hangzhou university , zhejiang agricultural university , zhejiang medical university focused on the research and teaching in their own field and trained a large number of outstanding professionals . and finally at sep.15th 1998 , the new zhejiang university was formed and developed rapidly during the past 12 years and made every effort to build itself as one of the first-class university in the world .