Jeopardy!    jeopardy ! jeopardy ! is an american television game show created by merv griffin . the show first appeared on nbc , where it was hosted by art fleming from march 30 , 1964 to january 3 , 1975 and again from october 2 , 1978 to march 2 , 1979. beginning on september 10 , 1984 and continuing into the present , the show is in syndicated format and is hosted by alex trebek . versions of the show have been made in many foreign countries throughout the world . since the syndicated version premiered , the show has won the most emmy awards of any game show on daytime television . in 2001 , `` tv guide '' named it the second-best game show of all time . unlike regular trivia games , the answers are given as clues , and players come up with questions as an answer . for example , a clue would be `` one of our founding fathers , he was our first president '' , and the right answer would be `` who is george washington ? '' . the game of `` jeopardy ! '' consists of three rounds : the jeopardy ! round , the double jeopardy ! round , and the final jeopardy ! round . in the jeopardy ! round , there are six categories with five clues in each , each worth between $ 200 to $ 1000 . one of the clues is a daily double , in which a contestant may wager up to $ 1000 or the amount of his or her cash winnings , depending on which is more . the double jeopardy ! round is like the jeopardy ! round , but the clues are worth double the amount . in this round there are two daily doubles instead of one . the final jeopardy ! round is made up of just one category and one clue . only players with more than $ 0 after the double jeopardy ! round may play the final jeopardy ! round . during the commercial break , players write their wagers based on their knowledge of the given category . after the commercial break , the host reads the clue . the players have 30 seconds to write their answers , again in the form of a question . during this time the lights dim , and the `` think ! '' theme plays in the background . the player with the most money at the end of the game keeps his or her winnings and comes back to the next show . second-place players get a $ 2000 cash prize , and third place players get a $ 1000 cash prize .