Calamba City     calamba city is a city in the province of laguna , philippines . the city is south of manila . calamba city is a popular tourist destination . it has several hot spring resorts . most of these are in barangay pansol . there are 651 resorts and hot springs in the city . the canlubang golf and country club has been the host of many philippine opens . calamba is also an important modern industrial center in the calabarzon region . this is shown by the large number of industrial parks and business estates in the city . 360,281 people live in the city . there are in 58,466 households . calamba city is the most populated city in laguna province . san pedro , santa rosa city , biñan city , and san pablo city follow it as the top 5 municipalities and cities by number of people in the province . calamba city is the birthplace of josé rizal . he is a national hero in the philippines . the name of the city comes from a legend . the legend says that during the early time of the spanish period in the country , two `` guardias civil '' or spanish soldiers were lost . as they moved through the area that is now calamba , they met a young woman . she came from a river carrying a jar of water and a wooden stove . the soldiers asked the lady what the name of the place was . they asked this in spanish and used an angry tone to hide the fact that they were lost . she did not speak spanish and thought she was being questioned about what she was carrying . she answered `` kalan-banga '' , meaning `` clay stove '' ( `` kalan '' ) and `` water jar '' ( `` banga '' ) . because they could not pronounce it correctly , the city has been called calamba since then . this legend is immortalized with a large concrete water jar built in the city plaza with the names of the city 's barangays written on it . it is said to be the world 's biggest `` claypot '' . this same jar is also in the city 's seal . the idea to build the plaza came from dr. agapito alzona . he was a town councilor at the time . it was built on an unused area that was at one time the old town market . the plaza was built in 1939 .