Order of Merit     the order of merit ( ) is an award , for notable work in the armed forces , science , art , literature , or for the promotion of culture . the order was set up in 1902 , by edward vii . membership of the order is a personal gift of its sovereign ( the monarch does not take advice from politicians about who should be a member ) . the sovereign of the order is the reigning monarch of the commonwealth realms , and is limited to 24 living recipients at one time from these countries , plus a small number of honorary members . whilst all members can use the post-nominal letters `` om '' and a medallion for life , the order of merit 's precedence , amongst other honours , differs between commonwealth realms . the first mention of a possible order of merit was made following the battle of trafalgar , in 1805 , in letters between the first lord of the admiralty , lord barham and prime minister william pitt , though nothing came from the idea . later , queen victoria , her courtiers , and politicians , all thought that a new order , based on the prussian order `` pour le mérite '' , would make up for the insufficient recognition offered by the established honours system to achievement outside of public service , in realms such as art , music , literature , industry , and science . victoria 's husband , albert , prince consort , took an interest in the matter ; he wrote in his diary that he met on 16 january 1844 with robert peel to discuss the `` idea of institution of a civil order of merit '' and three days later he talked with the queen on the subject . the concept did not wither and , on 5 january 1888 , british prime minister the marquess of salisbury submitted to the queen a draft constitution for an order of merit in science and art , consisting of one grade split into two branches of knighthood : the order of scientific merit - for knights of merit in science , with the post-nominal letters `` kms '' and the order of artistic merit - for knights of merit in art , with the post-nominal letters `` kma '' . however , sir frederic leighton , president of the royal academy , advised against the new order , primarily because of its selection process .