Principality of Hutt River     the principality of hutt river , previously known as the hutt river province , is the oldest micronation in australia . the principality claims to be an independent sovereign state . it is unrecognized except by other micronations , but got de facto legal status on 21 april 1972. the principality is located north of perth , near the town of northampton . the principality was founded on 21 april 1970 by leonard george casley when he and his friends proclaimed their secession from the state of western australia . the principality of hutt river was created in 1969 , as a province by the name of hutt river province , in response to a dispute with the government of western australia over what the casley family considered draconian wheat production quotas . the casley farm had around of wheat ready to harvest when the quotas were issued which allowed casley to sell only 1,647 bushels or approximately . initially the five families who owned farms in hutt river banded together to fight the quota and casley lodged a protest with the governor of western australia sir douglas kendrew . the governor replied `` no rectification of our quota would be allowed '' which , as he acts as the queen 's representative , made her majesty technically liable , in tort , for applying an unlawful imposition as the quota had not yet been passed into law . casley then lodged a claim under the law of tort for $ 52 million in the belief the claim would force a revision of the quota . two weeks later the government introduced a bill into parliament to `` resume '' their rural lands under compulsory acquisition . after approaches to the government to reconsider the acquisition bill failed , casley and his associates resorted to a british law ( the treason act 1495 ) which they felt allowed them to secede and declare their independence from the commonwealth of australia . casley states that he nonetheless remains loyal to queen elizabeth ii . casley was elected administrator of the new `` sovereign state '' by his family .