Space Shuttle Challenger disaster     the space shuttle challenger disaster occurred on january 28 , 1986 , when the nasa space shuttle challenger broke up 73 seconds after liftoff . all seven crew members were killed . the cause of the explosion was a part called an o-ring that broke in the right solid rocket booster . during the flight , hot gases escaped from the o-ring and made it break apart . it was very cold on the morning of the space shuttle 's launch . the `` challenger 's '' engineers argued that the `` challenger '' should not take off because the temperature was 31째f ( -1째c ) and the o-rings could not seal right if the temperature was under 53 째f ( 12째c ) . the nasa commanders did not agree and said that the backup o-ring would work . they were later proved wrong . another problem was that the temperature had gotten so low that icicles were hanging from some parts of the `` challenger '' . at a little more than a minute after liftoff , the engines increased power to produce the highest thrust possible ( known as throttling up ) . the flight controllers informed the shuttle crew that their flight status was `` go '' at the throttle-up stage . the flight commander dick scobee responded with `` '' roger , go at throttle up . '' however , at 72 seconds after liftoff , the right booster pulled away from one of the parts attaching to the external tank . right then , the `` challenger '' suddenly went off its intended path , which may have been felt by the crew . at 73 seconds after liftoff , smith said the last words picked up by the recorder designed to record all interactions in the crew area of the shuttle during flight : `` uh oh ... '' '' . smith may have been responding to the shuttle 's computer telling him that the engines were moving quickly to compensate for the now loose booster in a useless attempt to get the shuttle back on the planned path , which showed that he knew about the problem about 3 hundredths of a second before the shuttle was torn apart .