Rhythm game     rhythm game , or rhythm action , is a type of music-themed action video game . these games mostly focus either on dancing or simulating the playing of musical instruments . players must press buttons in time with commands from the game , which are in time with the rhythm of a song . doing so will cause the game 's protagonist or avatar to dance or play their instrument correctly , thus achieving a greater score . the game can be played with a hand-held controller , though different control devices have been made to play rhythm games , such as guitar- and drum-shaped controllers for musical instrument games , and pressure-sensitive pads ( called dance mats ) that the player must step on for dancing games . the kinect for the xbox 360 allows the player to use their whole body to control the game by tracking their movements . some games have a multi-player mode , where players can play as members of a band or dance crew , or compete against each other . the 1996 title `` parappa the rapper '' was the first influential rhythm game . the basic design of the game became a pattern that later rhythm games followed . in 1997 , konami 's `` beatmania '' started popularity for rhythm games in japan . the company 's music division , bemani , released many music games over the next several years . the most successful of these was dance mat game `` dance dance revolution '' , which was also the only one to achieve large-scale success outside of japan . the game 's style was imitated by many other games , until the release of harmonix 's `` guitar hero '' . the game was inspired by similar , earlier japanese games , but harmonix added rock music aimed at a western audience . the success of the game revived the genre and two hugely successful franchises were born in `` guitar hero '' and the later `` rock band '' . the success of both expanded the console video game market and its demographics . by 2008 , rhythm games were considered to be one of the most popular video game genres , behind other action games . however , because there were so many spin-offs from the core titles in 2009 , there was a nearly 50 % drop in sales for music games , causing them to scale-back plans for further expansion in 2010 .