Janemba     janemba is the final villain in dragon ball z , ending the series to bring forth dragon ball gt . he appears in the twelfth and final movie of the series . janemba starts out as a very large , but incredible round blob . when goku hurts janemba greatly , he reverts to a smaller , thinner , yet far more powerful form , super janemba . he has purple armor and red skin with a tail . janemba was originally an ogre for king yemma , working at a machine that could bring back the dead . when the machine malfunctioned , the ogre turned into janemba . meanwhile , the malfunctioning brought all the dead villains back to life on earth , under frieza 's command . hercule goes to deal with the zombies , while goku and pikkon go to deal with janemba , who has trapped king yemma inside his palace . janemba , goku , and pikkon begin their fight in the underworld . goku is able to deal with janemba after some battling , and the monster reverts into super janemba . super janemba 's immense power level allows him to easily deal with super saiyan 3 goku , pikkon , and vegeta , who had been given his body temporarily to help fight janemba . eventually , goku and vegeta fuse , but something goes wrong , and they become a very fat and weak fusion named veku . king kai blames the messed up fusion on vegeta , because he did not stretch his index finger out . veku propels himself away from super janemba for the next 30 minutes by farting . in those 30 minutes , goten and trunks fight a revived hitler . they begin easily dealing with him and the nazis , eventually beating him as super gotenks with a super kamikaze ghost attack . just after , hercule is doing a good job fending off the zombies , while frieza taunts gohan and videl . he orders his men to attack the couple , but gohan easily gets through them , and destroys frieza with a ki blast and a punch to the gut at the same time . this makes all the remaining zombies retreat . back in the underworld , goku and vegeta unfuse , and try fusing again . this time , it is successful , and super gogeta was born . super gogeta made quick work of super janemba , and ultimately destroyed him .