Size-exclusion chromatography     the popular separation method called size-exclusion chromatography ( sec ) separates components of mixture based on the size . recall a mixture can be composed of many substances each with different physical and chemical properties which can be used to differentiate them . sec essentially allows components that are larger in size to exit the column ( elute ) first while components that are smaller in size will exit the column last . a typical column used in sec has two substances called phases that interact with the mixture and these substances help force the separation of the mixture . the mobile phase is a solvent which helps carry the mixture down the column , and the stationary phase which does not move . unlike other chromatography methods , the stationary phase used in sec does not exploit the polarity of each component . it is worth noting there is no chemical interaction between the stationary phase and a component . a column could be packed with two types of stationary phase material . first the stationary phase could be a porous solid . a common porous solid is silica which has a diameter of 5-10µm and a pore sizes ranging from 100-1000å . silica provides excellent rigidity and will not move throughout the column . porous solids are also stable at high pressures and temperatures which allows for the use of a vast variety of solvents . unfortunately silica particles have a tendency to allow absorb soluble components and they have the capacity to break down components into atoms . for these reasons columns could also be packed with porous gels . the structure of gel is vastly different from a porous solid because gel ’ s have a polymer-like ( a repeating structure of the same substance ) structure . gels have been shown to be more effective than porous solids at allowing components through its pores . gels have pore sizes ranging from 100-100000å . so how is it that larger molecules exit the column before smaller molecules ?