Luke Skywalker     luke skywalker is a character from the `` star wars '' universe . he is the main hero of the `` star wars '' movies and book series . luke was in three `` star wars '' movies , ' , ' and ' . he was also in most of the books that took place after these movies . luke skywalker was played by actor mark hamill in all three movies . the character was also shown briefly at his birth in ' . luke skywalker is the main character during the original three movies . these movies follow his life from being a farmer on the planet tatooine to becoming an important part of the rebel alliance and a jedi knight . the adult luke skywalker is first seen in this movie . he was raised on the planet tatooine . tatooine is a desert planet . he lives with his uncle , owen and his aunt , beru . after he bought two droids , named c-3po and r2-d2 , stormtroopers sent by the empire start to look for them . r2-d2 runs away one night . in the next morning , luke and c-3po look for him . luke is attacked by tusken raiders , but is rescued by obi-wan kenobi . r2-d2 plays a message from princess leia asking for help from obi-wan . obi-wan then says that luke must come with him to alderaan to learn about the force . luke learns that his father , anakin skywalker , was a jedi . luke also gets his father 's old lightsaber . luke says that he can not go with him and returns home . when he does , he sees that his home was destroyed ( broken down ) . he goes back to obi-wan and agrees to go with him and learn about the force . luke , obi-wan and the droids go to mos eisley to find a pilot to take them to alderaan . they get han solo and chewbacca to take them to alderaan . when they get there , they see that the planet is gone and there is a small moon close to where it was . this small moon is the death star . on board the death star , luke , han , and chewbacca save princess leia . as they are about to leave they see obi-wan fighting darth vader . obi-wan gives his life so that the group can escape . luke and the others go to yavin 4 so that the secret plans to the death star in r2-d2 can be used to destroy the death star . luke then pilots an x-wing to fight against the big space station . luke uses the force and fires the missile that destroys the death star .