Oratorio     an oratorio is a piece of music for orchestra , choir and solo singers . it usually tells a story from the old testament . an oratorio may be about two hours long : a whole concert . it is rather like an opera , but whereas an opera is acted out in costume on a stage , an oratorio is sung and played in a concert hall or church . the oratorio as we know it was created in the 18th century . the words were normally in the composer ’ s own language , not in italian like most operas were at that time . the word `` oratorio '' had been used many centuries ago for music-dramas performed in churches in western europe . in italy oratorios and operas were both being composed in the 17th century . in germany composers like heinrich schutz and , later , johann sebastian bach were writing passions which tell the story of the crucifixion . these are not usually called “ oratorios ” but they are similar . the first important composer of oratorios was george frideric handel . handel , who was born in germany , had become english . handel had written a lot of operas , but in 1732 he started to write oratorios instead and quite suddenly people became very interested in oratorios . he used the same sort of music as in his operas : the work would start with an overture ( an introduction on the orchestra ) and then there would be recitative ( the bits that told the story ) , arias ( songs for the solo singers ) and choruses for the choir . the chorus was very important in oratorios : they got more to sing than in most operas . this meant that choral societies became very popular , and this tradition spread from england ( where handel lived ) to other countries in europe . handel ’ s most famous oratorio is `` messiah '' . unlike most of his other oratorios , the story is not from the old testament . it tells the story of the birth , life and death of jesus . in britain handel ’ s `` messiah '' is traditionally performed around christmas . other oratorios by handel include : `` deborah '' , `` saul '' , `` samson '' , `` judas maccabaeus '' and `` solomon '' . handel composed all these oratorios to english texts .