Incidental music     incidental music is music which has been written for a play . it is not like opera where there is usually music all the way through . incidental music will be used between scenes or for particularly important moments in the play or for songs sung by the actors . it is called “ incidental ” because the music is not as important as the play . incidental music was used as long ago as the time of ancient greece . it was used in the 16th and 17th centuries , especially in the plays of shakespeare whose characters often sing songs . at this time incidental music was used more often for comedies than for tragedies . tragedies were about important people who were busy ruling their country and having wars . in the plays they spoke in verse and were too noble to sing . people thought that comedies were more suitable for including music . the songs were often sung by actors playing the parts of shepherds , nymphs or clowns . in later centuries music was used for all types of serious drama . sometimes large orchestras were used . many famous composers wrote music to be played by an orchestra during plays . a famous example is the incidental music for shakespeare ’ s “ a midsummer night 's dream ” composed by felix mendelssohn in 1842. other composers worked with living poets such as goethe and schiller . beethoven wrote music for goethe ’ s play `` egmont '' . this music is very closely linked to what happens in the story : the overture describes the harshness of the spanish oppression of the netherlands which is what the play is about . schubert ’ s famous `` rosamunde '' overture comes from a play called `` die zauberharfe '' ( `` the magic harp '' ) . schumann ’ s music for `` manfred '' is different : it was never intended to be performed with the play , it was just inspired by schumann ’ s imagination . many other composers wrote incidental music , e.g . sibelius ( for maeterlinck ’ s play `` pelléas et mélisande '' ) and grieg ( for ibsen ’ s play `` peer gynt '' ) .