InuYasha     inuyasha is a manga made by rumiko takahashi that has also been made an anime series . this is a story started by a girl shooting a boy who has dog ears and white hair . she shouts `` inuyasha ! '' to him , while she shoots and dies afterwards , nobody knows why . her little sister , kaede , runs to her side calling `` sister kikyo ! `` , but it 's too late . she 's already dead . before kikyo dies though , she asks kaede to burn her together with a purple jewel - the shikon no tama ( the shikon jewel ) . but , kikyo 's not dead yet , because of her reincarnation , meaning kikyo became alive again to another person , who is a girl called kagome . she soon appears after kikyo burns , in the future world , and her granpa shows a fake shikon no tama which kagome does not believe in . she never believed in those things until ... her 15th birthday arrived . she lands into a well in her house , where she goes back to the past , finding inuyasha on a tree , stuck on there for 50 years by kikyo 's arrow . she meets kaede , an older one because 50 years passed in this world after what happened to kikyo . kaede finds out that kagome is the reincarnation of her own sister , and helps her keep the real shikon no tama that kagome suddenly found in her body . kagome gets the arrow out of inuyasha when a centipede yokai/demon attacked her to get the jewel . when inuyasha does kill it , he tries to kill kagome too , to revenge on kikyo ( he thought kagome was her ) , but kagome can now control him with kaede 's magic by saying `` sit ! '' just like a dog . and inuyasha `` is '' a dog yokai ! after that , kagome shatters the jewel by mistake and has to try to find them all before evil creatures do . this is the beginning of their adventure and they also have to find one of the evil , who is naraku . many other characters come to help kagome and inuyasha , like sango , miroku , kirara and shippo ... this , in the anime finished at 167 episodes but many people expect it to continue ... inuyasha is like a basic fairy tale .