Battle of Bannockburn     the battle of bannockburn , fought on 23 and 24 june 1314 , was an important scottish victory in the wars of scottish independence . a smaller scottish army defeated a much larger and better armed english army . when king alexander iii of scotland died in 1286 , his heir was his granddaughter margaret , maid of norway . king edward i of england arranged to have his son , edward ii of england , become her husband and share the crown of scotland in 1289. but margaret died on her way from norway to scotland in 1290. this began a period in scotland called the first interregnum ( 1290–1292 ) . scotland was without a monarch . edward i was invited to choose who would be king from among the candidates who had any claim to be king . he chose john of scotland . but edward now claimed power over the scottish king . balliol could do nothing without edward 's approval . in july 1295 the scottish parliament met and took most of the power away from john balliol and gave it to a group of men they elected called the `` council of twelve . '' this group made an agreement with king philip iv of france called the auld alliance . king edward gathered his army at newcastle and prepared to invade scotland . he brought his army to berwick and captured the town and castle . john balliol sent king edward letters refusing to recognize edward 's right to rule scotland . after edward had captured all the castles in scotland , john balliol surrendered to him . john balliol was sent to prison in london , then later edward allowed him to live in france . in 1296 edward made every man in scotland who owned land promise to be loyal to him . scotland remained without a king of their own until 1306 when robert the bruce declared himself king of scotland defying edward i. just before doing this robert the bruce had been involved in a dispute with john comyn . the two met before the altar in greyfriars church in dumfries in 1306 and in a fight john comyn was killed . robert the bruce was crowned king three weeks later at scone . accused of murdering comyn , bruce was excommunicated by the pope . edward sent his men after bruce but was unable to capture him . a series of border skirmishes and wars went on . in 1310 edward again invaded scotland but with little effect . between 1310 and 1314 a large number of castles were captured from the occupying english soldiers by bruce and his followers .