Friedrich Kellner Diary     the diary of friedrich keller is a journal written during the second world war . the author , august friedrich kellner , was a justice inspector in the courthouse in mainz . he was also a political activist for the social democratic party of germany between 1918 and 1933. after hitler banned the party , the family moved to laubach . when hitler ordered the invasion of poland in september 1939 , kellner began his secret diary . he named his diary `` mein widerstand , '' which means `` my opposition . '' in the diary , he wrote down what he saw and heard about what happened in nazi germany . he wrote it so that people later would know about it . the diary has ten volumes , with a total of 861 pages . there are 676 dated entries . included in the diary are more than 500 newspaper clippings . at the end of world war two , most germans said they knew nothing about the mass murders of the jews . but as early as october 28 , 1941 , kellner wrote the following entry in his diary : a soldier on vacation here said he witnessed a terrible atrocity in the occupied parts of poland . he watched as naked jewish men and women were placed in front of a long deep ditch and upon the order of the ss were shot by ukrainians in the back of their heads and they fell into the ditch . then the ditch was filled with dirt even as he could still hear screams coming from people still alive in the ditch . these inhuman atrocities were so terrible that some of the ukrainians , who were used as tools , suffered nervous breakdowns . all the soldiers who had knowledge of these bestial actions of these nazi sub-humans were of the opinion that the german people should be shaking in their shoes because of the coming retribution . there is no punishment that would be hard enough to be applied to these nazi beasts . of course , when the retribution comes , the innocent will have to suffer along with them . but because ninety percent of the german population is guilty , directly or indirectly , for the present situation , we can only say that those who travel together will hang together .