Talent (weight)    talent ( weight ) a talent ( latin : `` talentum '' , from ancient greek : `` scale , balance '' ) is an ancient unit of mass . it corresponded generally to the mass of water in the volume of an amphora , i.e . a one foot cube . the babylonians and sumerians had a system in which there were 60 shekels in a mina and 60 minas in a talent ( in ancient greece one talent was 26 kg of silver ) . the roman talent consisted of 100 libra ( pounds ) which were smaller in magnitude than the mina . when used as a measure of money , it refers to a talent-weight of gold or of silver . the gold talent is reported as weighing roughly the same as a person , and so perhaps 50 kg ( 110 lb avoirdupois ) . some authorities say that the talent typically weighed about 33 kg ( 75 lb ) varying from 20 to 40 kg . in february , 2016 , the international price of gold was about us $ 1190 per troy ounce . one gram costs about $ 38 . at this price , a talent ( 33 kg ) would be worth about $ 1.25 million . similarly , in february 2016 , the price of silver was about $ 15 per troy ounce or about 50 cents per gram , so a 33 kg silver talent would be worth about $ 16,500 . thus when we read that king auletes of egypt paid gaius julius caesar the sum of 6,000 talents of gold to grant him the status of a `` friend and ally of the roman people , '' this amount would be worth about $ 7.5 billion usd today ! these estimates are only rough values , because they are based on modern estimates.the value of silver in comparison to gold drastically changed . this is because of the output of the spanish silver mines in the new world . in ancient times the same amount of silver was often worth more than gold . the estimates do not account for the less technical mining ability of the time , nor that there were still native deposits available . later in roman history , during the medieval byzantine period , the emperor basil ii was said to have stockpiled the legendary amount of 200,000 talents of gold which , in modern terms , would be worth approximately $ 250 billion usd . at any rate , he did save enough money that the byzantine government was able to remit all taxes paid during the final two years of his reign .