Teletubbies     teletubbies is a bbc bafta award-winning children 's television programme , mostly made for toddlers , and produced from 31 march 1997 , to 16 february 2001 by ragdoll productions . the show is about the adventures of teletubbies tinky winky , who is violet , dipsy , who is green , laa-laa , who is yellow , and po , who is red . it was created by anne wood and andrew davenport , who wrote each of the show 's 365 episodes . narrated by tim whitnall , the show quickly became a success both with critics and with the public in britain and other countries , and won its bafta in 1998. the show remained in production for three more years , and released a single , `` teletubbies say 'eh-oh ! ' '' , based on the show 's theme song , which reached number 1 in the uk singles chart in december 1997 and remained in the top 75 for 32 weeks , selling over a million copies . in may 2016 nick jr ( a american children 's channel ) started to re produce teletubbies . it is rumored the show may not stay on that long . in the show , four colorful , mythlogical , magical , free-spirited , child-aged doll-like creatures , known as the teletubbies , play in the mythological and magical world of teletubbyland . they do things that little children like to do , such as rolling on the ground , laughing , running about , and watching real children on the televisions on their bellies . a mysterious pinwheel , known as the magic windmill , stands at the back of the grassy , technological tubbytronic superdome , and microphonic periscope-like telephones , known as voice trumpets , rise out on the meadow or inside the superdome . the baby sun , a mythological infant sun , makes baby noises during the show , and it rises and sets to begin and end the show . the land is covered with unusually talkative flowers and an anthropomorphic elephant-like vacuum-cleaner , known as noo-noo . the only natural animals are rabbits ( although birds are often heard ) . the weather is always sunny and enjoyable except for some cloudy days , with rain and puddles , and snow at christmas time . the teletubbies are played by actors dressed in stuffy costumes , although the recording site is designed to give no sense of scale ( weight ) . the costumes sort of look like spacesuits , which the teletubbies are maybe the same size as , although the teletubbies sometimes have clothes to wear , which are a pair of socks , a pair of mittens , a pair boots , a skirt , a hat , a vest and a pair of underwear , they are furry and they have cloth screens on their tummies . this is where the word `` teletubby '' comes from : `` tele- '' is the prefix word for `` at a distance '' and `` tubby '' is the noun for `` an overweight person '' . these screens are used to switch into short movie sequences , which are generally repeated at least once . when the series is shown in different countries around the world , the movie clips are changed to fit the countries ' main audiences . ( the british versions are the originals . )