History of Islam     muslim history began in arabia when muhammad the quran in the 7th century . the historical development of islam has affected political , economic , and military trends both inside and outside the islamic world . as with christianity , the concept of an `` islamic world '' is useful when one looks at different periods of human history . after muhammad died , the muslim leadership was assumed by abu bakr . he was followed by umar , uthman ibn affan and then ali . these four are called the `` rashidun caliphs '' which means the righteous caliphs . the word caliph means religious and spiritual leader . under these caliphs islam became one of the most important religions of the middle east . administrative offices of the muslim nation were established . under umar more than two thirds of the eastern roman empire was conquered by the muslims . umar also started the muslim calendar . the first civil war in islam , also known as the `` first fitna '' broke out in islam during the rule of the fourth caliph ali and lasted throughout his caliphate . the third caliph uthman ibn affan had been murdered by rebel muslim groups who had political motives . after ali took over , the most important problem he faced was that of punishing those responsible for murder . however many people felt that before accepting the position of the caliph , ali should have focused his attention on finding and punishing the murderers . a group of people led by muhammad 's wife aisha , her brothers in law talhah and zubair ibn al-awam refused to recognize ali 's caliphate . they instead raised an army which met ali 's army at basra in iraq , originally for the purposes of negotiations . in the night , some fighting broke out , probably out of confusion or due to rebel groups who were involved in the infamous murder . this led to the `` battle of bassorah '' ( also known as `` battle of the camel '' ) in which ali 's party emerged victorious . aisha was escorted back to medina honorably after the battle by ali .