Bram Stoker     abraham `` bram '' stoker ( 8 november 1847– 20 april 1912 ) was an irish writer , best remembered as the author of the influential vampire novel `` dracula '' . he was born on 8 november 1847 at 15 marino crescent—then as now called `` the crescent '' —in clontarf , a coastal suburb of dublin , ireland . his parents were abraham stoker ( born in 1799 ; married stoker 's mother in 1844 ; died on 10 october 1876 ) and the feminist charlotte mathilda blake thornley ( born in 1818 ; died in 1901 ) . stoker was the third of seven children . abraham and charlotte were members of the church of ireland and attended the clontarf parish church ( st. john the baptist ) with their children where both were baptised . until he started school at the age of seven—when he made a complete , astounding recovery—stoker was an invalid . of this time , stoker wrote , `` i was naturally thoughtful , and the leisure of long illness gave opportunity for many thoughts which were fruitful according to their kind in later years . '' after his recovery , he became a normal young man even excelling as an athlete at trinity college , dublin ( 1864–70 ) , from which he was graduated with honors in mathematics . he was auditor of the college historical society and president of the university philosophical society , where his first paper was on `` sensationalism in fiction and society '' . in 1876 , while employed as a civil servant in dublin , he wrote theater reviews for `` the dublin mail '' , a newspaper partly owned by fellow horror writer j. sheridan le fanu . his interest in theatre led to a lifelong friendship with the english actor henry irving . in 1878 stoker married florence balcombe , a celebrated beauty whose former suitor was oscar wilde . the couple moved to london , where stoker became business manager of irving 's lyceum theatre , a post he held for 27 years . the collaboration with irving was very important for stoker . through him he became involved in london 's high society , where he met , among other notables , james mcneil whistler and sir arthur conan doyle . in the course of irving 's tours he got the chance to travel around the world .