Darfur     darfur ( arabic دار فور , meaning `` home of the fur '' ) is region of far western sudan . it borders the central african republic , libya , and chad . it is divided into three federal states within sudan : gharb darfur ( west darfur ) , janub darfur ( south darfur ) , and shamal darfur ( north darfur ) . it is currently in the midst of an ongoing humanitarian crisis that developed from the conflict between ganjaweed militias and rebel groups ( namely the sudan liberation movement and justice and equality movement ) darfur covers an area of about 493 180 km² ( 196,555 miles² ) —just over two-thirds the size of france and more than half the size of kenya . it is largely an arid plateau with the `` marrah mountains '' ( jebel marra ) , a range of volcanic peaks rising up to 3000 m ( 10,100 ft ) , in the center of the region . the region 's main towns are al fashir , nyala , and geneina . there are four main features of the physical geography . the whole eastern half of darfur is covered with plains and low hills of sandy soils , known as `` goz '' , and sandstone hills . in many places the `` goz '' is waterless and can only be inhabited where there are water reservoirs or deep boreholes . to the north the `` goz '' is overtaken by the desert sands of the sahara . a second feature are the `` wadis '' , seasonal watercourses ranging from small rivulets that flood only occasionally during the wet season to large `` wadis '' that flood for most of the rains and flow from western darfur hundreds of miles west to lake chad . many `` wadis '' have pans of alluvium with rich soil that are also difficult to cultivate . the west of darfur is dominated by the third feature , basement rock , sometimes covered with a thin layer of sandy soil . basement rock is too infertile to be farmed , but provides sporadic forest cover that can be grazed by animals . the fourth and final feature are the marrah mountains , that rise up to a peak at deriba crater where there is a small area of temperate climate , high rainfall and permanent springs of water .