Scarface (1983 movie)    scarface ( 1983 movie ) scarface is a 1983 american crime thriller movie . it was directed by brian de palma , written by oliver stone and stars al pacino . the story is about tony montana , a cuban criminal who moves to miami , florida and creates his own cocaine business . it is a loose remake of the 1932 movie `` scarface '' . the movie made $ 85 million . tony montana is a prisoner from cuba who is coming to the united states on a boat to escape the oppressive communist government . once there , he works for frank lopez , a miami drug lord . soon , tony kills frank and takes over his business . he also marries elvira , frank 's girlfriend who at first refused to go out with tony because of frank . soon , tony becomes very rich and powerful because of his growing cocaine empire . he meets alexander sosa , a powerful bolivian drug lord . elvira later leaves tony because she feels that despite all of their money and power , tony 's criminal lifestyle and drug problems make them losers . tony is eventually arrested for not paying taxes and even though he would be able to bribe some of the judges , he will still have to go to jail for three years . sosa offers to have one of his contacts in the justice department write off tony 's charges if tony kills a journalist who is going to make a speech against sosa to the united nations . tony plants a bomb on the target 's car , but sees the journalist 's family inside it , and does not make the bomb go off . tony later visits his best friend , manny , but when he sees his sister , gina , with him , he kills him . gina reveals that she and manny got married a few days earlier and wanted to surprise tony . tony , feeling extreme guilt for killing his friend and ruining his sister 's life , withdraws to his mansion and begins to snort large amounts of cocaine . sosa gets angry and sends many men to miami to kill tony . when the men enter tony 's mansion , they kill gina and most of his men . angry and sad at the death of his sister , tony singlehandedly kills many of sosa 's men in a major shootout . tony is then shot in the back by an assassin with a shotgun , and falls into his fountain below , dead .