Piston     in general , a piston is a lubricated sliding shaft that fits tightly inside the opening of a cylinder . its purpose is to change the volume enclosed by the cylinder , to exert a force on a fluid inside the cylinder , to cover and uncover ports , or some combination of these . a rubber seal is sometimes used to keep the lubricate within the shaft . due to the constant motion of the machine this seal wears quickly and should be replaced with every servicing . if the seal should break during usage there can be disastrous long lasting consequences for the machine . there are two ways that a piston engine can transform combustion into motive power . these are two-stroke and four-stroke . a single cylinder two-stroke engine produces power every crankshaft revolution , while a single cylinder four-stroke engine produces power once every two revolutions . older designs of small two-stroke engines produced more pollution than four stroke engines . however , modern two-stroke designs , like the vespa et2 injection utilise fuel-injection and are as clean as four-strokes . large diesel two-stroke engines , as used in ships and locomotives , have always used fuel injection and produce low emissions . one of the biggest internal combustion engines in the world , the wärtsilä-sulzer rta96-c is a two-stroke ; it is bigger than most two-story houses , has pistons nearly 1 metre in diameter and is one of the most efficient mobile engines in existence . in theory , a four stroke engine has to be larger than a two stroke engine to produce an equivalent amount of power . two stroke engines are becoming less common in developed countries these days , mainly due to manufacturer reluctance to invest in reducing two-stroke emissions . traditionally , two stroke engines were reputed to need more maintenance . even though the simplest two stroke engines have fewer moving parts , they could wear out faster than four stroke engines . however fuel-injected two-strokes achieve better engine lubrication , and cooling and reliability should improve considerably .