Coat of Arms of Armenia     the national coat of arms of armenia consists of an eagle and a lion supporting a shield . the coat of arms combines new and old symbols . the eagle and lion are ancient armenian symbols dating from the first armenian kingdoms that existed prior to christ . the current coat of arms was adopted on 19 april 1992 by the armenian supreme council decision . on 15 june 2006 , the law on the state coat of arms of armenia was passed by the armenian parliament . the shield consists of many parts . in the center is an image of mount ararat with noah 's ark sitting on top of it . according to tradition , the ark is said to have finally rested on the mountain after the great flood . ararat is considered the national symbol of armenia and so is of significant importance to the coat of arms . surrounding mount ararat are symbols of old armenian dynasties . in the lower left portion of the shield , there are two eagles looking at each other , symbolizing the length of the armenian territory during the reign of the artaxiad dynasty that ruled in the 1st century bc . in the upper left portion , there is a lion with a cross , the emblem for the bagratuni dynasty that ruled during the middle ages , between 7th and 11th centuries . under this dynasty , armenia blossomed culturally , making its capital , ani , one of the most important cultural , social and commercial centers of its time . bagratuni was destroyed by the byzantine empire 's encroachment and by seljuk invasions in the 11th century ad . in the upper right portion , there is a two-headed eagle , the emblem of the first dynasty to reign over a christian armenia , the arsacid dynasty of armenia . tiridates iii of arsacid dynasty made armenia the first christian nation in 301 ad . this dynasty ruled from the 1st century ad to 428 ad . in the lower right portion , there is a lion with a cross , the emblem of the rubenid dynasty . this dynasty reigned in armenian kingdom of cilicia , a state that expanded and prospered during the 12th and 13th centuries , until the mamelukes and turks eventually conquered it .