Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann     ernst theodor amadeus hoffmann ( born königsberg 24 january 1776 ; died berlin 25 june 1822 ) was a german writer , composer , music critic , painter , caricaturist and lawyer . he liked the music of wolfgang amadeus mozart so much that he changed his third name from wilhelm to amadeus . he is always known as e. t. a. hoffmann . he was a man of many talents , but his greatest importance is as a romantic writer . he wrote fantasy and horror stories which had a very large influence on german literature in the 19th century . his stories had a lot of influence in music . he is the hero of jacques offenbach 's famous opera `` the tales of hoffmann '' . his fantasies were used in other musical works such as delibes ’ s ballet `` coppélia '' and in operas by busoni and hindemith . hoffmann studied law at the university of königsberg from where he graduated when he was only 16 years old . he finished his studies in glogau and berlin . his first job was in posen . he married in 1802 , but in the same year he had to leave his job because he had made fun of some people in his caricature drawings . he soon went to warsaw where he worked as a lawyer as well as meeting famous writers . he composed music , including a symphony , a harp quintet and music for plays . because of the political situation after the french invasion in 1806 he lost his job . he tried to get a job in berlin but without success . in 1808 he went to bamberg where he spent five years . his job there was as a conductor and theatre designer . he fell in love with a young girl called julia marc and composed sacred music and operas . he wrote musical criticism as well as stories for the newspaper `` allgemeine musikalische zeitung '' . these include the famous short stories `` ritter gluck '' , `` don juan '' and the series called `` kreisleriana '' ( `` johannes kreislers , des kapellmeisters musikalische leiden '' , i.e . `` the musical suffering of the director of music johannes kreisler '' ) .