IPhone     the apple iphone is a mobile phone that is made by apple . it does many things that a computer can do , but is small enough to fit in someone 's hand . it is a mobile phone , meaning that it makes calls without wires . it can use wi-fi and access the internet as well . like an ipod , it plays music and videos that have been put on it from a big computer , which is called syncing . it also has a calendar and camera , and can send text messages . people use the iphone by touching the screen with a finger or two . this is done by tapping , dragging , and even typing on a keyboard shown on the screen . the first-generation iphone can run iphone os 3.1.3 , the iphone 3g can run ios 4.2.1 , and the iphone 3gs can run ios 6.1.6. the iphone 5 and later can run the newest version of ios , ios 10. there have been ten types of iphone models . the original iphone was released on june 29 , 2007. on july 11 , 2008 , the iphone 3g was released which , hence the name , got upgraded with 3g wireless internet . on june 17 , 2009 , apple released the iphone 3gs which featured a compass and a 3.2 megapixel video camera . on june 24 , 2010 , a new version of the iphone , the iphone 4 , was released . it has the facetime-camera included , which is placed on the screen side and allow taking self-portraits while looking at the viewfinder . the facetime-camera is less advanced than the back camera , but can be used for video-telephony , where the members of the talking can see each other on the screen . additionally , it has an updated operating system that allows quicker navigation of all the features . the iphone 4 also has more pixels ( 326 ppi ; 960×640 ) on the screen than previous version of the iphone , which makes all features such as pictures and videos look sharper . a minor upgrade to the iphone 4 was the iphone 4s . it came on october 14 , 2011 , and had a new feature called siri , which is a voice activation system . additionally , it is able to record videos in 1080p-fullhd-resolution , which is 2.25× times higher than 720p , so that each still frame from the video contains more details . this makes it possible to see smaller items on the footage in a sharper , clearer way . additionally , it allows zooming into the video to see more details .