Marketing mix     the marketing mix is the combination of elements necessary to the planning and execution of the total marketing operation . the total marketing operation mainly consists of three processes : analyzing the situation of companies , stp , and marketing mix . marketing managers first analyzes the situation of the company and then conduct stp : segmentation , targeting , positioning . in stp , they segment the market , choose the target market in which the company can have competitive advantages and determine what is to be their products ' position in the market , and then they design the marketing mix . in the process , marketing managers should design an internally consistent and mutually supportive marketing mix . it was specifically divided into the 4ps : product , place , price and promotion by e.jerome mccarthy in 1960 , and from then it has been dealt with various variables . these variables include not only goods and services but usage , value , image and so on . in devising the marketing strategy : the total marketing operation , it is usually said that getting a competitive advantage should be considered importantly than any other factors . thus , product and price is firstly determined because in the case they could be seen more related to the competitive advantage . in that case , decision-making about place and promotion is considered relatively later after determining the strategic position of the products by comparing rival products and then giving relative quality of products , price of products to the market . however , it is usual way of using marketing mix , and the relative importance of each mix can be different in many cases in terms of the situation of the market , the characteristic of the product , the characteristic of the company and so on . thus , place or promotion can be the highest priority in any cases . in conclusion , marketing managers must pursue the most appropriate marketing mix with a bid to achieving competitive advantage using minimum effort .