WarGames     wargames is a 1983 american science fiction thriller teen movie starring matthew broderick and ally sheedy and directed by john badham . the movie follows a computer hacker named david lightman ( broderick ) who breaks into a norad war games simulation computer that he thinks is really the computer for a computer game company . lightman begins a series of events that could start world war iii . the movie was nominated for three academy awards and was a big hit . it continues to be popular . the movie begins with two air force officers in a nuclear missile silo who are ordered to fire the missiles in the silo . the officers believe the order to be real and begin to fire the missiles . one of the officers decides not to fire and so the us government replaces all the men in the missile silos with computer control . david lightman ( broderick ) is a smart high school student and computer hacker that at first limits himself to changing his and a girl whom he likes a lot , jennifer 's ( sheedy ) grades from failing to passing grades : lightman being smart but not motivated at school . a little while later david uses his imsai 8080 computer to dial many phone numbers and finds a backdoor into a norad war games simulation computer called wopr ( nicknamed the `` whopper '' ) . at first david is looking for new computer games to download and play and believes that the wopr is actually the computer of a company that makes new computer games . after finding a list of games on the computer decides to play a game . wopr ( who is an artificial intelligence computer ) asks david for a password and after doing some research on the computer 's creator professor steven falken he guesses that the password is named after the creator 's dead son , joshua . after logging in using the correct password , w.o.p.r . believes david to actually be dr. falken whom the computer had believed to be dead . the computer ( which david now calls `` joshua '' ) asks him if he would like to play a game . david selects the game `` global thermonuclear war '' . doing so starts off a series of events that will end up taking the world into world war iii unless it is stopped .