Dwayne Johnson     dwayne `` the rock '' johnson ( born may 2 , 1972 in hayward , california ) is an american actor and semi-retired professional wrestler . he is best known for his work with the wwe . johnson began his career as a football player . he played in the canadian football league . this only lasted a couple of months before he was let go . he then chose to become a professional wrestler like his father , rocky johnson , and grandfather , peter maivia . he began working working the wwf and became very well known . he is one of the most popular wrestlers ever . he has won 16 championships . these include both alone and in a tag team . he has also won the royal rumble . he was the sixth person to win the wwe `` triple crown '' . this means he won all three of the main championships - the wwe championship , the intercontinental championship , and the world tag team championship . johnson returned to the wwe on february 14 , 2011 , when it was said that he was going to be the guest host of wrestlemania xxvii . at wrestlemania , he came out after the john cena and the miz wwe championship match ended in a draw . he said it was `` time the people got what they want '' and restarted the match as a no disqualification match . when the bell rang to start the rematch he hit the `` rock bottom '' on john cena to let the miz pin john cena to keep his championship . after the match the rock came back in the ring and hit the `` people 's elbow '' on the miz to end the show . on the following `` raw '' , john cena called out the rock and challenged him to a match . the rock accepted his challenge and said that if they are going to fight , they were going to do it at wrestlemania xxvii . the corre came out after the rock accepted and attacked both the rock and cena , cena and the rock fought back and beat the corre . the rock defeated cena at wrestlemania xxviii . the rock defeated cm punk at the 2013 royal rumble to win the wwe championship for an eighth time . he returned in october to have a face off with rusev on raw only to leave the wwe universe again . many people are still waiting for the peoples champ to return .