Villette     villette is a novel by english writer charlotte brontë . it is based on her experience as an english teacher in brussels . `` villette '' is a moving story of hidden feelings and , and a woman 's right to love and be loved . people like the book , not so much for its plot , but for the careful and detailed picture of lucy ( the main character ) 's feelings and emotions . charlotte brontë used gothic buildings and other things to show lucy 's feelings inside . the story starts with lucy snowe at age 14 observing a visitor at her godmother , lousia bretton 's , house , a little girl called `` polly '' or `` missy . '' ( her real name is paulina mary home ) . polly loves her papa very , very much , and when he leaves , is extremely unhappy . however , she soon starts to like mrs. bretton 's young son , graham , and they become great friends . later , when lucy tells her she has to leave and see her father again , polly is very surprised and sad . lucy comforts her , and they part . later , a family trouble ( the book does not say what ) forces lucy into action -- she goes onto a ship heading for france . on there , she makes friends with a very pretty and selfish girl named ginevra fanshawe . when she arrives at france , a gentleman helps her find her trunk , and she finally finds work as a teacher in madame beck 's boarding school . madame beck is a cool , clever , careful woman , who often spies and searches the teachers , firing and hiring easily . however , lucy is quite satisfied , if not happy , there . ginevra fanshawe is a student there , and she and lucy become friends again . they usually fight with each other because of ginevra 's silliness , but they never get separated completely . later , young english dr. john ( the gentleman who helped her when she first came to france ) keeps on visiting the school because he loves ginevra , who says she does n't like him much . later , dr. john is discovered to actually be graham bretton , and lucy and graham become friends again . lucy begins to love him secretly , but tries her best to keep her feelings hidden . eventually , though , she buries her love for him by symbolically burying all the letters he sent to her .