Edward Scissorhands     edward scissorhands is a 1990 american romantic fantasy movie directed by tim burton . caroline thompson wrote the screenplay . danny elfman , a composer and musician from the band oingo boingo , wrote and performed the music in this movie . the role of edward was played by johnny depp , with winona ryder playing kim , his love interest . after making this movie , ryder became much more famous . depp and burton were a successful combination after this movie . many of burton 's movies after `` edward scissorhands '' star depp . it starts with an old woman telling a story about snow to her granddaughter . the story is about an unhappy young man named edward , who had scissors instead of hands . a saleswoman of avon , peg , visits the house on the top of the mountain in her town . there lived edward . edward was created by a lonely inventor . he was left unfinished because the inventor died before giving him human hands . peg felt pity for him and took him home . he was welcomed in the village . the neighbors got to like him more because of his talent in gardening and hair cutting . jim , kim 's boyfriend , tried to use edward 's skill of unlocking doors without a scratch for stealing money from his own father . however , the security system was operating and edward was locked in the room alone , where he was later caught . after then , jim started to dislike edward . later , when edward caught saw that kim was enjoying the snow outside , edward made an ice sculpture of her . jim called out her name , causing edward to jump , and he accidentally cut kim 's hand . however , jim claimed that it was intentional . also , when edward saved kevin from a car accident , he was misunderstood . people thought he was trying to hurt kevin . edward was suspected by all the people in the village . so he went back to the castle he was living in . jim followed him and tried to hurt him , but edward stabbed jim and pushed him out of the window of the castle , killing him . kim wanted to protect edward . so she lied to a villager , saying that they killed each other . the story ends with a scene in which it is revealed that the old woman telling the story was kim .