Ultra Series     the is the name for all the shows produced by tsuburaya productions featuring ultraman , his many kyodai ( brothers ) , and the countless number of ultra beings and the ultra monsters . the ultra series is one of the tokusatsu superhero productions from japan , along with kamen rider series , super sentai series , and the metal hero series . ultraman is a seijin from star of lightm-78 . many ultramen are usually red and silver ( although several different colored ultra 's have been seen in recent years , most of them are blue colored ) and have glowing yellow eyes ( except for red warriors ) and they have many abilities , most of them are to fire energy beams from many positions of crossed hands . the ultra beings main weakness is that they can only stay on earth in giant form for a small time , usually not longer than three minutes , because of the small amount of energy supply ( earth 's atmosphere decreases the solar energy ) . this is marked by a blue light on the character 's body usually called the color timer ( but ultraseven , 21 , nexus anphans , and next did not have a color timer ) or `` warning light , '' which begins to blink red with increase in blinking as his energy supply goes down ( and turns from grey to red ) but red warriors like ultraseven had orb on their head instead of color timer . during this time the ultra beings must either find a way to recharge or finish the fight as soon as possible , or forced to turn to human form , or worse , certain death . sometimes some ultra warriors take them back to their home planet or when reflected sun rays by the mirrors on his color timer might charge him up . some say another reason for ultraman to recharge is because the earth is badly polluted by humans , so ultraman only has three minutes on earth , but can survive long enough in outer space . the time limit only happens inside the earth 's atmosphere but they have none of those problems in outer space . in this case , ultramen almost always merge with a human host or create a human form for themselves in order to survive on earth , more often than not reviving a rescently dead person with their own lifeforce ( hikari did not revive the dead person but he controlled him ) . ultra beings ' also appear to be near immpossible to permently kill , as several times an ultra being has been killed only to be revived by another member of their species . in other cases a large enough amount of energy can be provided to bring them back to life , usually provided by their human allies , even after being completely destroyed , as was the case with mebius , death at the hands of empera seijin , only to be revived shortly thereafter by the life energy of his allies .