Ferdinand Marcos     ferdinand emmanuel edralin marcos ( september 11 , 1917 – september 28 , 1989 ) was a filipino politician and lawyer who served as president ( 1965-1986 ) and prime minister ( 1978-1981 ) of the republic of the philippines . he is a polarizing historical figure in both philippines and the world . marcos established an authoritarian regime that came under criticism for corruption and for its suppression of democratic processes and dictatorial nature . on the other hand , he achieved accomplishments most notably in infrastructure . ferdinand edralin marcos was born on september 11 , 1917 , in sarrat , ilocos norte , philippines . his parents mariano marcos and josefa edralin , were both teachers from important families . he studied law at the university of the philippines and later on top the bar examinations for lawyers. , during which he was accused of assassinating his father 's political rival . he represented himself as his own lawyer and he was later acquitted by the supreme court . during world war ii , marcos claimed that he had been the leader of `` ang maharlika '' , guerrilla force in northern luzon . after the war , he served as ilocos norte representative ( 1949-1959 ) and as senator of the philippines ( 1958-1965 ) . he was also senate president ( 1963-1965 ) and then went on to become the president of the philippines . as a president , he helped improve the infrastructure of the philippines . he was also good at international diplomacy . he was probably the best and most intelligent and smartest president of the philippines and many preferred his autocratic rule with iron fist . however , in other side , he may be the one of the most corrupt leaders such as suharto or kim il-sung or kim jong il due to atrocities . a few years later , national problems like the insurgency by the communist movement and rebellion arose during his presidency : he declared martial law in september 1972 to institute peace and order and discipline . his style of leadership soon became dictatorial . government greed , government bullying , despotism , nepotism , and violation of human rights abuses were abundant . the nation 's masses who went against the government were sent to prison , tortured , raped or killed . people could not express themselves freely unless it was in favor of the marcos family .