Paul Stanley     paul stanley ( born january 20 , 1952 in is an american hard rock guitarist and singer for hard rock band kiss . born in manhattan , new york city , u.s. , on january 20 , 1952 in a family dedicated to jewish jewelry . he moved to queens , new york city in 1960. his father was part of the parsons junior high school `` with the hope that graduates from a good profession , there is outstanding for its artistry , but not liked by his teachers mostly by his haircut . paul was heavily influenced by the beatles and the rolling stones image and was coming little by little the world of rock'n'roll , something good was that his parents did not put down and entered the `` high school for music and arts in the late 60s . he played in his garage elvis songs with his guitar brand `` phil '' of poor quality he got for his birthday . after a while playing in a cover band called `` uncle joe '' , was taken to a gang of older boys to record a single for cbs . during his musical training , he met chaim witz to change his name to eugene klein , born in israel , in haifa , which would later be known as gene simmons , with whom he did not get along at first , were sharing tastes and ambitions to be great friends , a friendship that has lasted until today . when he was unemployed played with gene in the streets for a big mac . after it was founded with stanley eisen , gene simmons and stephen coronel , the band wicked lester who are about to make a record is broken by both the dismissal of stephen as the lack of money ( initially gene played guitar , as the remaining members were also guitars , gene used bass . the band wicked lester can not be what paul and gene are looking for , so look for members to start a new band revolutionary and unique , so gene one day reading the rolling stone magazine is a bit peculiar announcement and decide to contact peter crisscuola ( peter criss ) who is willing to be even dress up as a ridiculous but lovable cat , so now just need a member who would lead guitar , so i arranged an audition and find a crazy , lonely brain called paul daniel frehley ( ace frehley ) and the kiss finally formed . they released their first album in 1973 called kiss .