Left-handedness     left-handedness is the preference to use the left hand more than the right hand for daily activities such as writing or using tools . most people can use either hand for many things . however , people very often have a definite preference for using the left or right hand for things such as : using a pen , using a knife , using scissors , brushing teeth , blowing their nose , and so on . people who do not have a preference are called ambidextrous , and people who can not use either are called ambisinistrous . people do not just have preferences with things they do with their hands : they may , for example , be left-footed if they prefer to kick a ball with the left foot , or push harder with the left foot on a bicycle pedal . far more people are right handed than left handed . it is difficult to measure exactly how many , because each person has a different mixture of preferences , but about 5-10 % are left-handed . because left-handed people are different from most others , being left-handed has often been thought of as bad . for many years , right-handedness was seen as `` normal '' and left-handedness as `` not normal '' . in hebrew , as well as in other ancient semitic and mesopotamian languages , the word `` left '' was a symbol of power . in many european languages , `` right '' means “ correct ” ( the opposite of “ wrong ” ) . in law the word “ right ” means authority and justice ( in a democracy everyone has certain “ rights '' . in russian and other slavic languages `` prav '' is used in words meaning “ correct ” or “ truth ” . someone who is skilled with their hands is called “ dexterous ” . but `` left '' often means “ awkward ” in many languages . in french “ gauche ” also means “ clumsy ” . in english , the word “ sinister ” ( which comes from the latin word for “ left ” , `` sinistra '' ) means “ evil ” . we also say that someone has “ two left feet ” meaning that they are clumsy with their feet ( for example they may step on their partner ’ s toes when dancing ) .