Harriet Beecher Stowe     harriet beecher stowe ( june 14 , 1811 – july 1 , 1896 ) was an american abolitionist and writer . her novel `` uncle tom 's cabin '' ( 1852 ) showed the lives of african-americans slaves . it was very popular as a novel and a play , and had a great influence in the united states and britain , helping people who did not like slavery and making many people disagree with slavery.biographystowe was born harriet elisabeth beecher in litchfield , connecticut , on june 14 , 1811. her parents were religious leaders lyman beecher and roxana ( foote ) beecher . her mother died when harriet was five years old . she had a sister , catharine beecher , who was an educator and author , and three brothers henry ward beecher , charles beecher , and edward beecher.harriet went to the girls ' school run by her sister catharine . she received an education in the classics , including study of languages and mathematics . at 21 , she moved to cincinnati , ohio to join her father . he had become the president of lane theological seminary . she also joined the literary salon and social club called the semi-colon club.harriet married calvin ellis stowe on january 6 , 1836. he was a widower and professor at the seminary . they had seven children together , including twin daughters . calvin stowe was a critic of slavery . the stowes supported the underground railroad . they briefly sheltered several fugitive slaves in their home . `` uncle tom 's cabin '' and the american civil warin 1850 , the stowe family moved to a house near the campus of bowdoin college in brunswick , maine . calvin stowe was teaching in the college . on march 9 , 1850 , stowe wrote to the editor of the antislavery journal `` national era '' . she told him that she was planning to write a story about slavery . in june 1851 , the first installment of her book , `` uncle tom 's cabin '' , was published in the `` national era '' . she originally used the subtitle `` the man that was a thing '' . it was changed to `` life among the lowly '' . installments were published every week from june 5 , 1851 , to april 1 , 1852.for the newspaper serialization ( published in parts ) of her novel , stowe was paid only $ 400 . `` uncle tom 's cabin '' was published in book form on march 20 , 1852 , by john p. jewett with an initial print run of 5,000 copies . each of its two volumes included three illustrations and a title-page designed by hammatt billings . in less than a year , the book sold an unprecedented 300,000 copies . by december 1851 , sales began dropping off . a cheap edition was published to stimulate more sales.americans were captivated by the book . it provoked more debate about abolition and slavery . southerns hated the book . within a year of the book 's publication , 300 babies were named `` eva '' in boston alone.lincoln and stoweafter the start of the american civil war , stowe went to washington , d.c. she met president abraham lincoln on november 25 , 1862. stowe 's daughter hattie reported , `` it was a very droll time that we had at the white house i assure you ... i will only say now that it was all very funny—and we were ready to explode with laughter all the while . `` lincoln greeted stowe by saying , `` so this is the little lady who made this big war . ''