Afro-Dominican     afro-dominicans or dominicans of african ancestry are dominicans whose ancestry ties within the continent of africa . most of them came from west africa and the congo . the first africans in the dominican republic came in 1502 from spain , 8 years later african-born slaves came in large numbers . they were forced to work the mines , sugar plantaitions , cattling , cowboys , maids , farming and others . today , afro-dominicans are the largest ethnic group in the dominican republic . they makeup nearly 92 % ( 59.3 % black , 32.7 % mixed black ) of the country 's population . they can be found anywhere in the island , but they makeup the majorities in the southwest , south , east , and the north parts of the country . in the central cibao region , you can find people of either european , mixed , and african descent . the atlantic slave trade began in the very early 1500s . santo domingo ( present-day dominican republic ) was the first place to transport african slaves in the americas . the dying of indigenous people in the island , cuased the spanish to quickly grant permission from spain to use slaves to work the plantations . in 1510 , the first sizable ship consisted of 250 black ladinos ( spanish-speaking blacks ) , 8 years later , african born slaves arrived in massive numbers . the slave and black population was so big that they would out-number whites from 9 out of 10. the first major slave revolt took place in dominican republic 's hills in 1522. these maroons were originally from the senegambian region of africa ; of which most were muslims of the wolof nation . many centuries later the maroon populations became so large that the only way whites could travel would be in large armed groups . most of the maroon populations established themselves in mostly in rivers , hills/mountains , coastal and in caves . the congolese people were known to be very aggressive and naturally strong , they and many of the mandingas , wolofs , and fulanis were the main ethnicities to have been born in maroon villages .