The Little Mermaid (1989 movie)    the little mermaid ( 1989 movie ) the little mermaid is a 1989 american animated musical fantasy movie produced by walt disney feature animation . it is based on the fairy tale of the same name . the movie was first released into movie theaters on november 14 , 1989 by walt disney pictures and buena vista pictures . it was re-released on november 17 , 1997. disney said that there would be a 3d re-release on september 13 , 2013. this was cancelled on january 14 , 2013 because the other disney 3d re-releases were not as successful as disney had hoped they would be . in january 1990 , `` the little mermaid '' had three academy award nominations . the movie won two of the awards . they were for best song ( `` under the sea '' ) and best score . the movie also earned four golden globe nominations . it won the awards for best song ( `` under the sea '' ) and best score . the movie is about a mermaid princess named ariel . she and her best friend , a fish named flounder , explore the ocean looking for human things . they talk to a seagull named scuttle who explains each thing that they find ( but not accurately ) . ariel does not like living in the sea and wants to live on land , where people are . one day she sees a ship of people and meets a prince named eric . she saves his life from drowning . when ariel 's father , king triton , finds out that she saved a human man from drowning , he destroys all the things she has kept in her grotto . after that , two eels named flotsam and jetsam tell her about a seawitch named ursula . they tell her that ursula can make her dreams come true . she follows them to ursula 's lair where she has magic potions . she uses her magic to turn ariel into a human for exactly three days , in exchange for her voice . in order to stay human , she has to kiss prince eric , or else she will turn back into a mermaid and belong to ursula . eric shows her his palace and helps her adapt . on the second day , sebastian the crab gathers the other sea animals together and they sing `` kiss the girl '' , hoping to make eric kiss ariel . the plan almost works , but flotsam and jetsam cause the boat to sink . ursula decides that enough is enough and uses ariel 's voice to turn herself into a beautiful girl named vanessa . she casts a hypnotic spell on eric to make him forget about ariel . the next day , everyone finds out that eric is getting married , and ariel is very sad . scuttle finds out that the girl eric is marrying is ursula in disguise . he tells ariel and manages to create disruption , delaying the wedding . the seashell ursula is wearing breaks and ariel 's voice comes back . she tries to kiss eric , but the sun sets and she turns back into a mermaid . ursula offers to let ariel go if triton takes her place . he accepts it and turns into a plant . with help from sebastian and flounder , prince eric and ariel defeat ursula . ursula dies and all the plants she had turn back into mermaids . finally king triton gives ariel her wish and she is allowed to marry prince eric .