Thutmose I     thutmose i ( also known as `` thothmes , '' `` thutmosis '' or `` tuthmosis i '' , meaning `` thoth-born '' ) was the third pharaoh of the 18th dynasty of ancient egypt . he became pharaoh after the death of amenhotep i. during his reign , he sent his armies into the levant and nubia , pushing the borders of egypt further than ever before . he built many temples in egypt and a tomb for himself in the valley of the kings . he is the first king known to have done this , though amenhotep i may have done it first . he was succeeded by his son thutmose ii , and then his daughter , hatshepsut . he ruled from 1506 to 1493 bc . some scholars give his dates from 1526 bc to 1513 bc . this depends on where the astronomical observations used to calculate ancient egyptian dates were made . if the observations were from the city of memphis it would give the dates 20 years earlier than if it was thebes . thutmose 's father is unknown , but it may have been amenhotep i. his mother , senseneb , was not from a royal family and may have been a lesser wife or concubine of amenhotep . thutmoses 's wife , queen ahmose , the great royal wife , was probably the daughter of ahmose i and the sister of amenhotep i. there is some doubt , as she was never called a `` king 's daughter . '' some historians believe that she was thutmose 's own sister . thutmose 's first son with ahmose was amenmose . he was born long before thutmose 's coronation . he can be seen on a stela from about 1522 bc hunting near memphis . he became the commander of the army . amenmose died about the same time as thutmose . thutmose had another son , wadjmose , and two daughters , hatshepsut and nefrubity , by ahmose . wadjmose died before his father , and nefrubity died as an infant . thutmose had a son by another wife , mutnofret . this son , married to thutmose 's daughter hatshepsut , succeeded him as thutmose ii . hatshepsut said that thutmose gave the kingship to them both . however , this is considered to be propaganda by hatshepsut 's supporters to support her claim to the throne when she later took over power .