Mia Wasikowska     mia wasikowska ( born october 14 , 1989 ) is an australian movie , television , and voice actress who is mostly known for her role as alice in tim burton 's `` alice in wonderland '' . she is also known for her television role as sophie in `` in treatment '' . wasikowska was born and raised in canberra , australia . she has an older sister named jess , and a younger brother named kai . her mother , marzena wasikowska , is a photographer from poland while her father , john reid , is an australian painter-and-collagist . as a child , she frequently accompanied her parents on their gallery rounds in europe , and in her spare time , she continues to enjoy photography . she studied ballet as a child and turned to acting when she was 15. after some television and movie works in australia , wasikowska moved to los angeles to be in the cable drama `` in treatment '' . her portrayal of a suicidal teen earned critical praise and led to more work in american movies , including `` defiance '' and `` amelia '' . in tim burton 's alice , wasikowska co-starred with johnny depp , anne hathaway , helena bonham carter and carried a blockbuster movie , appearing in almost every scene . she won an afi international award , a teen choice award and nominated an empire award for her performance . in 2009 , it was announced that wasikowska was cast in the lisa cholodenko-directed indie comedy film `` the kids are all right '' alongside annette bening , julianne moore , josh hutcherson and mark ruffalo . film received positive reviews from critics , and wasikowska received hollywood film festival breakthrough actress award for her role . from march to may 2010 , wasikowska filmed cary fukunaga 's adaptation of jane eyre , in which she starred as the title character opposite michael fassbender as mr. rochester . in 2011 , wasikowska shot the small supporting role of shia labeouf 's character 's love interest in john hillcoat 's `` lawless '' . then she filmed the lead in park chan-wook 's english-language debut movie , `` stoker '' , alongside nicole kidman and matthew goode . in 2014 , she starred in david cronenberg movie titled `` maps to the stars '' with julianne moore , john cusack , robert pattinson , olivia williams , and sarah gadon which premiered in competition for the palme d'or at the 2014 cannes film festival .