John Willis     john harlan willis ( june 10 , 1921 – february 28 , 1945 ) was a united states navy sailor . he received the medal of honor because of his actions in world war ii . willis ' medal of honor recognized his conduct at the battle of iwo jima . he was killed while giving first aid to the many marines wounded in fighting . the words of willis ' citation explain : for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty as platoon corpsman serving with the 3d battalion , 27th marines , 5th marine division , during operations against enemy japanese forces on iwo jima , volcano islands , 28 february 1945. constantly imperiled by artillery and mortar fire from strong and mutually supporting pillboxes and caves studding hill 362 in the enemy 's cross-island defenses , willis resolutely administered first aid to the many marines wounded during the furious close-in fighting until he himself was struck by shrapnel and was ordered back to the battle-aid station . without waiting for official medical release , he quickly returned to his company and , during a savage hand-to-hand enemy counterattack , daringly advanced to the extreme frontlines under mortar and sniper fire to aid a marine lying wounded in a shellhole . completely unmindful of his own danger as the japanese intensified their attack , willis calmly continued to administer blood plasma to his patient , promptly returning the first hostile grenade which landed in the shell-hole while he was working and hurling back 7 more in quick succession before the ninth exploded in his hand and instantly killed him . by his great personal valor in saving others at the sacrifice of his own life , he inspired his companions , although terrifically outnumbered , to launch a fiercely determined attack and repulse the enemy force . his exceptional fortitude and courage in the performance of duty reflect the highest credit upon willis and the u.s. naval service . he gallantly gave his life for his country .