Kim Hughes     kim spencer hughes gc ( born 12 september 1979 ) is a british army soldier . he is best known for receiving the george cross because of his actions in the war in afghanistan . hughes was born in munster , germany . his father was serving in the royal electrical and mechanical engineers . his family returned to england in 1985 ; and they lived in weston-super-mare . in 1988 , he moved to telford . hughes joined the royal logistic corps ( rlc ) . he was awarded the george cross because he made safe over 80 improvised explosive devices in afghanistan . notice of the award was published in the `` london gazette '' on 19 march 2010. he became one of the very few living s of the george cross . hughes ' george cross recognized his conduct in fighting in afghanistan in 2010. he carried out `` the single most outstanding act of explosive ordnance disposal ever recorded in afghanistan '' . hughes received his decoration from queen elizabeth ii at buckingham palace . the words of hughes ' citation explain : on 16 aug 09 , staff sergeant hughes , a high threat improvised explosive device disposal ( iedd ) operator , along with a royal engineers search team ( rest ) , was tasked to provide close support to the 2 rifles battlegroup during an operation to clear a route , south west of sangin.in preparation for the operation , elements of a company deployed early to secure an emergency helicopter landing site and isolate compounds to the south of the route as part of the inner cordon.whilst conducting these preliminary moves the point section initiated a victim operated ied ( voied ) resulting in a very serious casualty.during the casualty recovery that followed , the stretcher-bearers initiated a second voied that resulted in two personnel being killed outright and four other very serious casualties , one of whom later died from his wounds.the area was effectively an ied minefield , over-watched by the enemy and the section were stranded within it . hughes and his team were called into this harrowing and chaotic situation to extract the casualties and recover the bodies .