Hiroshi Miyamura     hiroshi h. miyamura ( born october 6 , 1925 ) , also known as hershey miyamura , was a united states army soldier . he received the medal of honor because of his actions in the korean war . miyamura was born in gallup , new mexico to japanese immigrant parents . he is a `` nisei '' , which means that he is a second generation japanese-american . miyamura joined the us army in january 1945. miyamura volunteered to be part of the all- '' nisei '' 100th infantry battalion . this army unit was mostly made up of japanese americans from hawaii and the mainland . after the end of world war ii , he became part of the u.s. army reserve . he was called to active duty in the korean war . he was a prisoner of war for 28 months . miyamura 's medal of honor recognized his conduct in fighting in korea in 1951. he fought in close quarters combat ; and he stayed behind to provide covering fire while his unit withdrew . the words of miyamura 's citation explain : cpl . miyamura , a member of company h , distinguished himself by conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty in action against the enemy . on the night of 24 april , company h was occupying a defensive position when the enemy fanatically attacked threatening to overrun the position . cpl . miyamura , a machinegun squad leader , aware of the imminent danger to his men unhesitatingly jumped from his shelter wielding his bayonet in close hand-to-hand combat killing approximately 10 of the enemy . returning to his position , he administered first aid to the wounded and directed their evacuation . as another savage assault hit the line , he manned his machinegun and delivered withering fire until his ammunition was expended . he ordered the squad to withdraw while he stayed behind to render the gun inoperative . he then bayoneted his way through infiltrated enemy soldiers to a second gun emplacement and assisted in its operation . when the intensity of the attack necessitated the withdrawal of the company cpl . miyamura ordered his men to fall back while he remained to cover their movement . he killed more than 50 of the enemy before his ammunition was depleted and he was severely wounded . he maintained his magnificent stand despite his painful wounds , continuing to repel the attack until his position was overrun . when last seen he was fighting ferociously against an overwhelming number of enemy soldiers . cpl . miyamura 's indomitable heroism and consummate devotion to duty reflect the utmost glory on himself and uphold the illustrious traditions on the military service .