Wim Crusio     wim e. crusio is a dutch scientist working on the genetics of behavior and the nervous system . he is `` directeur de recherche '' ( research director , a job title for a senior researcher ) with the french national centre for scientific research in talence , france . crusio got in 1979 a master 's degree and then in 1984 a ph.d. from the radboud university nijmegen . he performed research in behavior genetics , plant taxonomy , and vegetation science for his master 's degree . his revision of the genus `` anubias '' continues to generate interest . his work in plant taxonomy continued for several more years . he wrote about the genus `` samolus '' . in 1986 he described a new species of the aroid genus `` lagenandra '' , `` l.dewitii '' . crusio studied the inheritance of the behavior of mice exploring a new environment for his ph.d. he also looked at the effects on this behavior of not being able to smell ( anosmia ) . he used quantitative-genetic methods such as the diallel cross for this . crusio worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the university of heidelberg from 1984 to 1987. this was supported by a nato science fellowship and an alexander von humboldt research fellowship . crusio spent the year 1988 in paris ( france ) supported by a fellowship from the fyssen foundation . he returned to heidelberg as a senior research scientist . he was then recruited as `` chargé de recherche '' by the cnrs . he worked at first in an institute of the paris descartes university ( paris v ) . he was promoted to research director in 1994. in 1997 he moved to the cnrs campus in orléans . crusio became professor of psychiatry at the university of massachusetts medical school in worcester , massachusetts in 2000 and returned to the cnrs in 2005. he became a group leader in the `` centre de neurosciences intégratives et cognitives '' in talence , a suburb of bordeaux . he is currently adjunct director of the `` institut de neurosciences cognitives et intégratives d'aquitaine '' .