Broughton, Nova Scotia    broughton , nova scotia broughton ( 2001 pop . : 24 ) was a former town in the cape breton regional municipality about 12 miles from the former city of sydney , nova scotia . expected to be a boomtown when first settled , it was mostly abandoned when mining operations failed . during the first world war , broughton was used by the 185th cape breton highlanders as training ground . during this time the famous broughton arms hotel burned to the ground in april 1916. the hotel is believed to have had north america 's first revolving door . broughton was first settled at the turn of the 20th century as a mining town for the cape breton coal , iron & railway company , started by british mining engineer thomas lancaster and british businessman col. horace mayhew which intended to develop the coal seam at cochrane 's lake ( aka : loon lake ) . the pair raised millions of dollars , mostly from english investors , and construction on the town was started , with streets laid out and a number of large official buildings constructed , including the office building , the assistant manager 's house , the broughton arms hotel and crown hotel . remains of these substantial buildings can still be seen today , the scale of which giving an impression of the town 's lofty ambitions . a railway was built connecting to the sydney & louisburg railway at false bay head , continuing through broughton junction to broughton , a distance of 4 ½ miles , construction beginning in 1905 and completed in 1906. seemingly too much money and effort was spent on the details and modern conveniences of the `` most up-to-date modern city '' , one of the first attempts at a planned community in canada , and not enough attention to the actual mine operation . the company went bankrupt in 1907 after it failed to secure rail transportation to get its coal to port . it is said this was due to the opposition of the dominion coal company , which would not allow its sydney and louisburg railway to carry the coal produced by the mine .