André Roy     andré roy ( born february 8 , 1975 ) is an american-born canadian retired professional ice hockey player . roy was born mamaroneck , near port chester , new york . his mother , heidi golombeck , is from germany . she moved to new york in 1969. there she met andré 's father , gilles roy . they got married a few weeks later . they left new york to go to mamaroneck , near port chester , new york . they had three children : marc , kevin and andré . when andré was only two months old , the family moved to sainte-julienne , quebec . this village is in the region of lanaudière . andré started to play hockey at the age of five . he started playing hockey in novice a category but he was much better than the other players of his team . during his third season , he became an atom cc player . roy did not weigh as much as the other players , but he was one of the tallest . martin saint-louis , another professional hockey player , said that when andré was young , he was one of the best players in lanaudière . during the winter , roy stayed at the ice rink as much as possible . during the summer , he played hockey with rollerblades in the streets or in his driveway . according to his mother , he shot so many hockey pucks that he destroyed the cedar hedge and broke every window of his garage at least two times . in 1987 , andré entered in the peewee bb category . his slapshots were so powerful that the other teams ' goalkeepers were scared . the next year , roy played in the peewee aa category . during his third season in the peewee category , roy wanted to be in the aa team but problems he had with the aa 's coach made it so that he could not . he met steve latreille , the bb 's coach , during his third peewee season . during his second season in the bantam category , andré tried to play in the aa team with the north 's sélects . again , he could not because of issues with his ex-coach . he played in the cc category because there was no bb team that year in saint-jérôme . it was at this time that andré started to forget his dream of playing in the nhl . he decided to quit hockey .