Queen's apartment at Versailles    queen 's apartment at versailles the queen 's apartment at versailles ( fr : `` grand appartement de la reine '' ) consists of several rooms : the queen 's bedchamber ; the queen 's private cabinets ; the room of the queen 's gentlemen ; the queen 's antechamber ; the room of the queen 's guard . the apartment overlooks the parterre du midi , and parallels the king 's apartment . when the king 's apartment was abandoned at the end of louis xiv 's reign , the queens continued to occupy the queen 's apartment . the queen 's bedchamber . - the main room in the queen 's apartment is the queen 's bedchamber . it was designed for louis xiv 's queen maria theresa of spain . three queens occupied this room at different times : maria theresa of austria , marie leszczyńska , and marie antoinette . after the death of maria theresa in 1683 , it was occupied successively by two dauphines , marie-christine of bavaria and marie-adélaïde of savoy . the queen 's private cabinets . - the queen 's private cabinets were accessible to her majesty through the alcove in the bedchamber . these rooms are situated on a mezzanine overlooking the inner courts . the rooms are poorly lit . the meridian cabinet was once the oratory of the duchesse de bourgogne . it was redecorated by the rousseau brothers after mique 's drawings at the birth of the dauphin in 1781. a table made of petrified wood once belonged to charles i of england . it was gifted to antoinette from her mother . the blue `` grenadière '' cabinet is a reproduction . the paneling decorations in the gold cabinet are taken from antiquity . they include tripods , sphinxes , and carytids at the fireplace . this room was once the duc de bourgogne 's bedchamber . antoinette placed oudry 's pineapple over the door as an homage to the botanical research done at the trianon under louis xv 's patronage . furniture in the rooms include a commode by riesener ( 1779 ) and a harp by naderman . the commode once belonged to the comtesse d'artois . it was brought from antoinette 's bedchamber at marly .