101 Dalmatians: The Series    101 dalmatians : the series 101 dalmatians is an animated disney television series . is based on the `` one hundred and one dalmatians '' movie . the series was originally shown from september 1 , 1997 to march 4 , 1998 in first run syndication and on abc 's `` one saturday morning '' lineup . it had a total of 65 episodes . the main characters in the series are lucky , cadpig , rolly , and spot . lucky is the most adventurous of the 99 puppies and is unique in having his only spots in the shape of a horseshoe on his back . cadpig is another runt of the litter and the smallest of the 99 puppies but quite possibly the most intelligent , if not deluded . she is unique in having long floppy ears , a big head , a kind personality , and she 's also quite strong for her size . rolly is the very hungry one . almost all his decisions are based on food and this , at times , gets him and the pups into trouble . he is , however , a loyal and helpful sibling , especially when it comes to his incredible sense of smell . spot is a chicken who wants to become a dalmatian . she is a voice of reason for the foursome but , more often than not , is ignored . she is easily frightened and is prone to literally bouncing off the walls . she is , however , a good dancer ( which has to count for something , according to her ) and appears to be good at math . she is also able to fly . patch appears in the series in his look from the dodie smith novel ; he appears to be more laid-back unlike . dipstick retains a bit of his movie look ; he is portrayed as dimwitted but loyal . wizzer changed quite a bit from his movie look , being smaller and with white ears and a red collar . he follows mooch 's orders without question and is still prone to having accidents as in the live-action movie . two-tone changed quite a bit from her movie appearance , now having two black ears , a gold hoop earring in her right ear , a chubby body , a blue collar instead of pink , and a lower black body with white spots . she was mooch 's girlfriend and second in command of his gang until she dated lucky in `` love 'em and flea 'em . '' since then , two-tone has gone off on her own .