PaRappa the Rapper     parappa the rapper is a rhythm video game created by rodney greenblat , masaya matsuura and his company , nanaon-sha , in 1996. the game is named after a beanie-wearing dog in the game , parappa , with his motto `` i got ta believe ! `` , rapping his way to win the heart of his crush , sunny funny , a flower . a psp port of the original game was released in japan in december 2006 in north america and europe in july 2007. while the gameplay is not challenging for experienced gamers , the game is remembered for its unique graphic design of 2d characters and 3d objects , its quirky soundtrack and its bizarre plot . despite being made in japan , all of the game 's songs and dialogue are spoken in english in all versions . the game is named after the main character . `` parappa the rapper '' is a music game in which the main character , parappa , must make his way through each of the game 's six stages by rapping . on each stage , the game alternates with the rapping teacher to parappa . there is a u 'rapping meter in the bottom right corner , which will show the player 's performance with four levels , from top to bottom : `` cool '' , `` good '' , `` bad '' , and `` awful '' . the game works by a pattern of buttons ( triangle , circle , square , x , l , and r ) parappa will have to copy . the teacher will set down a pattern and parappa will have to copy it . players will stay on the `` good '' ranking when staying to the beat . if he messes up two times in a row , he goes down a level . on the other hand , if he gets a pattern right , he moves up a level , with good at the maximum . the player must clear the level on good or cool . if he clears it on bad or awful , or the meter goes below awful during the game , he will have to try the level again . however , if the meter gets to cool , the teacher will leave and parappa will be able to free-style . this is achieved by freestyling in a manner different to the predetermined lyric . if all of the levels are cleared with the meter on cool , a bonus level , `` k.t and the sunny funny band '' , will be unlocked . however , the player must complete the game at least once before `` cool '' can be reached .