Kow Swamp archaeological site     the kow swamp archaeological site is on the eastern side of kow swamp in northern victoria . a number of pleistocene burials have been found in a sand dune , known as a lunette . archaeologist alan thorne dug up the skeletons of more than 22 people between 1968 and 1972. the discovery of human remains included skulls which appeared to be 'pre-sapiens ' , that is , earlier than modern man . later studies did not confirm this . kow swamp is named for an aboriginal word , `` ghow '' , from the yorta yorta language . it means white gypsum soil which is found in the area . kow swamp is now a lake used to store irrigation water . it is 15 kilometres in circumference and about 3 metres deep . it was once a low lying swamp which only filled when the murray river was in flood or running at high levels . australian aborigines have lived at kow swamp . there are canoe trees where the bark has been taken from the tree to make a canoe . there are also middens , which are rubbish heaps with evidence of what people ate . early european settlers described an aboriginal ceremonial site on the north side of the swamp . in 1925 part of a skull was found on the west side of the swamp during digging works . it was called the `` cohuna cranium '' . the editor of the local newspaper `` cohuna farmers weekly '' notified authorities and the importance of the discovery was realised . in the 1960s , alan thorne also found an ancient bone in the collection at the museum of victoria , and traced the find spot to kow swamp . archaeological excavations took place between 1968 and 1972 by thorne for the australian national university in canberra . further remains were found around the swamp by a local person , gordon spark . by 1972 the remains of at least forty individuals had been excavated and studied . these discoveries helped prove the wide range of aboriginal genetic history . they have been used to show that there were different waves of immigrants to australia before european discovery .