Utah     utah is a state in the west united states . the capital and largest city is salt lake city . utah became a state in the u.s. on january 4 , 1896. utah is bordered by idaho and wyoming in the north and colorado in the east . it touches a single point of new mexico to the southeast at four corners . utah is bordered by arizona in the south , and by nevada in the west . it covers an area of 84,899 square miles ( 219,887 km² ) . utah is mostly rocky with three distinct geological regions : the rocky mountains , the great basin , and the colorado plateau . utah is a great geographical tourism place . utah is known for its natural diversity and is home to features ranging from arid deserts with sand dunes to thriving pine forests in mountain valleys . utah has a dry , semi-arid to climate , although its many mountains have large , wide , differences of climates , with the highest points in the uinta mountains being above the . the dry weather from the state lying mostly in the rain shadow of the sierra nevada in california . the eastern half of the state is in the rain shadow of the wasatch mountains . the primary source of rain for the state is the pacific ocean , with the state normally lying in the path of large pacific storms from mid-october through april , although northern utah often sees these large storms earlier and later . in summer , the state , normally southern and eastern utah , is in the path of monsoon from the gulf of california . most of the lowland areas get less than 12 inches ( 300 mm ) of rain a year . the great salt lake desert is the driest area of the state , with less than 5 inches ( 125 mm ) . snowfall is common in all but the far southern valleys . although st. george only gets about 3 inches ( 7.5 cm ) per year , salt lake city sees about 60 inches ( 150 cm ) , enhanced by the lake-effect snow from the great salt lake , which increases snowfall totals to the south , southeast , and east of the lake . some areas of the wasatch range in the path of the lake-effect get up to 700 inches ( 1,770 cm ) per year . the dry , fluffy , snow led utah 's ski industry to get the slogan `` the greatest snow on earth '' in the 1980s . in the winter , temperature are a phenomenon across utah 's low basins and valleys , leading to thick humidity and fog that can sometimes last for weeks at a time , normally in the uintah basin .