Thessaloniki     thessaloniki is the second-largest city in greece . there were 325,182 people at the census of 2011. including the suburbs , there were 1,110,312 people . it is in the region of macedonia in northern greece . it is the capital of the thessaloniki prefecture and it is the capital of the periphery of central macedonia . it is the largest city in the geographical region of macedonia . it has a humid subtropical climate ( `` cfa '' in the koeppen climate classification ) . thessaloniki was established by king cassander of macedon , friend of alexander the great in the fourth century b.c . he named the city after the sister of alexander the great , princess thessalonike , which in greek means `` victory over thessaly '' . from late antiquity to the late middle ages ( 330ad-1430ad ) it was the second most important city of byzantine empire . then thessaloniki faced many invasions from enemies such as the avaroi , bulgars and others . in the year 1204 , the crusaders conquered thessaloniki and created the kingdom of thessalonica . later it was liberated by byzantines and then sold to the republic of venice but the year 1430 , it was conquered by the ottoman empire . thessaloniki was a part of ottoman empire for aproximately 500 years and in 1912 it became part of greece when greece acquired macedonia following the balkan wars . many famous people have lived or were born here , such as the roman statesman and philosopher cicero , many saints like cyril and methodius , who invented the cyrillic alphabet , and saint demetrius , who is the patron saint of the city , and many politicians , such as the founder of modern-day turkey , mustafa kemal atatürk . most of the city was completely destroyed in a large fire in 1917 and was rebuilt in the 1920s . thessaloniki was place to both the salonica and macedonian fronts during world war 1 , this fronts were made of french , serbian , english , italian , and a russian division . this fronts were key in 1918 to the entente victory over both bulgaria and austria . it was later occupied by nazi germany during the second world war , during the greek invasion .