Alexander Scriabin     alexander scriabin ( also spelt : skryabin ) ( born moscow january 6 1872 ; died moscow april 27 1915 ) was a famous russian composer and pianist . he wrote music for the orchestra and for the piano . his music belongs to the late romantic period , but his later works sound quite modern , and he was influenced by impressionism . he had some very unusual ideas about combining all the arts into one work . scriabin was the only child in a family which had an aristocratic background . he was always proud of having been born on christmas day ( 6 january is christmas day in the russian orthodox church ) . his mother died when he was a year old and his father spent most of his time abroad working as a diplomat . he was looked after by his aunt , grandmother and great-aunt , all of whom fussed over him so that he was a very spoilt child . when he grew up he was very short and his hands could only just stretch one octave ( eight notes ) on the piano . scriabin was educated in the moscow cadet corps . he learned to play the piano and became friends with the composer sergei rachmaninoff who was just one year younger . he won the second gold medal ever to be awarded at the moscow conservatoire ( rachmaninoff had won the first one ) . he practised a piece called `` islamey '' by balakirev but damaged his right hand doing it . he still managed to continue his career as a pianist , but he wrote a few piano pieces for the left hand only . in 1895 he toured through many countries in europe giving concerts and composing a lot of piano music . he married in 1897. he went with his wife to odessa where he played his piano concerto and then spent several months in paris . he taught at the moscow conservatoire and wrote some important orchestral music . later he left his wife and children and went to europe for several years with another woman . she inspired a lot of his music . scriabin continued to travel and play the piano until the end of his life . when he was in london in 1914 he had a boil on his lip , which got steadily worse until he died a year later .