Mount Garibaldi     mount garibaldi is an eroded , dacitic strato volcano in southwestern british columbia . both garibaldi and mount baker to its south are part of the cascade volcanic arc . mount garibaldi , 80 km due north of vancouver , is made up of mount garibaldi , atwell peak , and dalton dome . this pleistocene volcanic center is part of a volcanic field that contains some 13 vents in an area 30 km long by 15 km wide , much of which is in garibaldi provincial park . the eruptive history of mt garibaldi involves an initial period of volcanism ( 200,000-300,000 years ago ) followed by a period of quiescence . renewed activity in the last 50,000 years has rebuilt the edifice in a series of violent eruptions , like when mount pelee erupted in 1902 and destroyed the town of st. pierre on the island of martinique . as successive pyroclastic flows travelled down the mountain 's gentle slopes and were deposited , the volcano took on a broad , conical form . part of the volcano 's southwest flank built out onto thick glacial ice filling the squamish river valley . subsequent rapid melting of the ice at the close of the last ice age removed support from the western part of the cone . the volcano collapsed , producing much of the existing rugged topography of mount garibaldi and atwell peak . this catastrophic failure left a scarp on which is exposed the internal structure of the volcano and a debris fan with an estimated volume of 150,000,000 m at the foot of the mountain north of the town of squamish . as valley glaciers retreated , two lava flows erupted clinker peak , immediately north of mt . garibaldi . the northernmost rubble creek flow was party confined by a wall of ice , resulting in a lava flow over 244 m ( 800 ft ) thick . the steep , northern edge of the rubble creek flow party collapsed several times , most recently in 1855-1856 ; the village of garibaldi was abandoned because of the danger of future collapses . the most recent period of activity occurred shortly after the disappearance of the glacial ice filling the valley , 10,700 to 9,300 radiocarbon years ago , and ended with the eruption the ring creek lava flow from opal cone on garibaldi 's southeastern flank .