Wimbledon, London    wimbledon , london wimbledon is a suburb in the london borough of merton , in the south west of london , england . the wimbledon championships , a tennis competition , is held there every summer . also in wimbledon are new wimbledon theatre , and wimbledon common , one of the largest areas of common land in london . wimbledon f.c. , a famous football club , started in wimbledon , then moved to milton keynes and changed their name to milton keynes dons f.c . however after this move afc wimbledon was created and now plays at kings medow in kingston . people live in two different areas . the high street area is called the `` village '' , and the area near the railway station is called the `` town '' . the high street area is part of the original middle ages village , and the `` town '' area is modern - houses were first built there in 1838. people are known to have lived in wimbledon since the iron age when the hill fort on wimbledon common was built . at the time the domesday book was written ( about 1087 ) , wimbledon belonged to the lord of the manor of mortlake . the ownership of the manor of wimbledon changed between various rich families many times during its history , and the area also attracted other wealthy families who built large houses such as eagle house , wimbledon house and warren house . the people in the village were either poor people who worked on the land or they were rich and important people . the rich and poor people lived together happily . in the 18th century the dog and fox public house became a stop on the stagecoach run from london to portsmouth , then in 1838 the london and south western railway ( l & swr ) opened a station to the south east of the village at the bottom of wimbledon hill . after the station was built , new houses were built near to it , and many people began living near the station . in the second half of the 19th century the amount of people living in wimbledon grew quickly . at the start of the 19th century there were about 1,000 people living in wimbledon ; then in 1911 there were about 55,000 people . during this time large numbers of villas and terraced houses were built out along the roads from the centre towards neighbouring putney , merton park and raynes park .