Red Hot Chili Peppers     red hot chili peppers is an american rock band . the band started in 1983 in los angeles , california . the state of california has been a theme in many of their songs . the members of the band are singer anthony kiedis , bass guitarist flea , guitarist josh klinghoffer , and drummer chad smith . the red hot chili peppers have released ten studio albums . their early albums consisted of a mix of rock and funk , and were not very successful . the band 's membership changed several times during this period , but kiedis and flea have been with the band since it started . when frusciante and smith joined in 1989 , red hot chili peppers ' next album , `` mother 's milk '' , was successful . it was the band 's first album to appear on the `` billboard '' music chart . while red hot chili peppers were on tour in 1992 after their fifth and most successful album , `` blood sugar sex magik '' , frusciante left the band because of a drug addiction . dave navarro became the new guitarist after frusciante . navarro and the other members of red hot chili peppers did not work together very well . the other members asked navarro to leave the band in 1998 , after one album , called `` one hot minute '' . at this time , frusciante had been making albums by himself . he was also suffering from a heroin addiction . when he was feeling better , flea asked him to join red hot chili peppers again and frusciante said yes . the band 's next album , `` californication '' ( 1999 ) , was one of their most popular so far . red hot chili peppers kept recording and released another album soon afterwards . in 2002 , they released `` by the way '' , which was also successful . after this , the band went on a concert tour around the world . while they were doing so they released a best of album . after the tour , the band recorded and released the album `` stadium arcadium '' in 2006 , which consisted of twenty-eight songs . after the tour of this album , the band activity was paralyzed for some time , because frusciante left the band to , again , focus on his career . the band went out to find a new guitarist , with klinghoffer joining them . they have produced a new album , called `` i 'm with you '' , and another album called `` the getaway '' .