Kashmir     kashmir ( , ) , previously spelled cashmere , is a region in south-central asia . historically , the name kashmir referred to the valley just to the south of the western end of the himalayan mountain range . today , kashmir refers to a much larger area that includes the indian state of jammu and kashmir ( which includes the kashmir valley , jammu region and ladakh ) , azad kashmir and gilgit–baltistan ( part of pakistan ) , and aksai chin and the trans-karakoram tract ( part of china ) . the main `` valley of kashmir '' is a low fertile area surrounded by mountains and fed by many rivers . people like it for its natural beauty and simple lifestyle . the region is part of a border dispute between india and pakistan . in total it has an area of 230,166.1 square kilometres or ( 89,106 square miles ) . the population of the region is more than the individual populations of 127 un member nations and its area is larger than that of 97 nations . the nilamata purana describes the valley 's origin from the waters , a fact corroborated by prominent geologists , and shows how the very name of the land was derived from the process of desiccation - ka means `` water '' and shimir means `` to desiccate '' . hence , kashmir stands for `` a land desiccated from water '' . there is also a theory which takes kashmir to be a contraction of kashyap-mira or kashyapmir or kashyapmeru , the `` sea or mountain of kashyapa '' , the sage who is credited with having drained the waters of the primordial lake satisar , that kashmir was before it was reclaimed . the nilamata purana gives the name kashmira to the ( kashmir valley includes the wular lake ) mira '' which means the sea lake or the mountain of sage kashyapa . mira in sanskrit means ocean or boundary , considering it to be an embodiment of uma and it is the kashmir that the world knows today . the kashmiris , however , call it `` kashir '' , which has been derived phonetically from kashmir . the ancient greeks called it as `` kasperia '' . kashyapa-pura , which has been identified with kaspapyros of hecataeus ( apud stephanus of byzantium ) and kaspatyros of herodotus ( 3.102 , 4.44 ) . kashmir is also believed to be the country meant by ptolemy 's kaspeiria . `` cashmere '' is an archaic spelling of present-kashmir , and in some countries it is still spelled this way . a tribe of semitic origin , named kash ( which means a deep slash in the native dialect ) , is believed to have founded the cities of kashan and kashgar , not to be confused with the kashyapi tribe from caspian . the land and the people were known as 'kashir ' from which 'kashmir ' was also derived from therein .