Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire     harry potter and the goblet of fire is the fourth book in the `` harry potter '' series by j. k. rowling . it was published on 8 july 2000. it was made into a movie that came out in 2005. in this book , harry is chosen as one of the hogwarts champions to compete in the triwizard tournament , a inter-school competition between hogwarts , durmstrang and beauxbatons . although each school is only supposed to have one champion , harry is chosen to act as a second champion for hogwarts along with cedric diggory.this makes ron angry which causes a temporary fall out . the four school champions are tasked with completing a series of three challenges . these challenges include stealing a golden egg from a dragon , rescuing a friend from beneath the black lake and finding the triwizard cup from within a maze filled with dangerous magical creatures . when he touches the triwizard cup for the first time with cedric diggory he is whisked away to a cemetery . harry then discovers that the cemetery is full of the dark lord 's followers . wormtail then kills cedric and then puts the soul of the dark lord into a potion of regeneration . then the dark lord rises again for the first time in thirteen years . he challenges harry for a wizards duel but their wands connect and cause the reverse spell effect . a ghostly cedric appears form the dark lord 's wand and asks harry to return his body to his parents . then harry breaks the connection but the dark lord screams to his servants to stop harry but later harry escapes . then he is greeted by the headmaster of the school and the minister of magic . then harry finds out that one of his school teachers , alastor moody , is actually a follower of the dark lord in disguise . he confesses to the headmaster under the influence of a truth potion . later harry was in the hospital wing when the minister and minerva mcgonagall came in arguing . it then was known that the minister had set a dementor on the disguised man . then the headmaster started arguing that until he reviled that harry had seen the dark lord return . but the minister refused to believe it and handed harry his winnings . later when they were going home one of harry 's friends told him that she had caught a journalist who told lies .