Bogotá     bogota is the capital ( city ) of colombia . as of 2009 , more than 7 million people live in bogota , which makes it the largest city in colombia . it is about 2,640 meters above sea level , on top a plateau ( a mountain with a flat top ) . this makes it the third highest capital in the world . with many universities and libraries , bogotá has become known as `` the athens of south america '' .the weather is usually nice during the day and cool at night . it has a series of bike paths ( trails that are made for bikes ) that wind through the city . it has many recreational and amusement parks open to the public . the current mayor is enrique penalosa . originally , native americans called muisca lived in the area . then , in 1538 , gonzalo jimenes de quezada , a spanish conqueror , founded bogota . bogota became a center of trade , art , and education . some of the oldest universities in the americas are in bogota . after independence from spain , bogota became the capital of gran colombia in 1819. bogota has had extremely awful moments . in 1948 , a presidential candidate , jorge eliécer gaitán , was murdered while doing a speech in front of hundreds of persons . this tragic moment brought with it terrible consequences : one of the most remembered one is the `` bogotazo '' . the `` bogotazo '' started as a political party war , the blue party , self named the `` conservatives '' , began to hunt and kill every single member of the red party , the `` liberals '' . such a sadistic event had not been seen in the history of colombia since the independence war of this very country . seeing this terrible unfair situation , the remaining blue party members decided to create the `` fuerzas armadas revolucionarias de colombia '' ( farc ) ; however , this group was ironically created to protect the oppressed people from their oppressors . nowadays , this group is known as terrorists and murderers ; nevertheless , colombia 's capital city , bogota , has not being attacked in the last few years .