Jarvis Island     jarvis island ( ; formerly known as bunker island ) is an uninhabited island owned by the united states . the small island is a part of the united states minor outlying islands , a group of mostly uninhabited islands . jarvis island was officially made part of the united states in 1858. people used to mine guano there , but they then abandoned it . the united states treats it as a nature reserve . located 25 miles south of the equator , jarvis island , is an uninhabited coral island located in the south pacific ocean . jarvis has no known natural freshwater sources , and very little rain . this creates a very bleak , flat landscape with plants no larger than shrubs . jarvis island has no ports or docks , other than a reef the guano miners blew up in order for the cargo boats to be able to drop anchor . its grass , vines and low-growing bushes are primarily a nesting , roosting , and foraging habitat for wildlife . the island has a tropical desert climate , with high temperatures in the day , constant wind , and a very hot sun . there is no evidence that the island has ever supported a native human population , but on august 30 , 1913 , the amaranth was carrying a cargo of coal from newcastle , new south wales , to san francisco when it crashed on jarvis ' southern shore . ruins of ten wooden buildings , and a two-story house among them , could still be seen by the `` amaranth '' crew , who left jarvis aboard two lifeboats . also , settlers were moved to jarvis island in 1935 to maintain a weather station and plan a landing field . a settlement called millersville was established on the west coast of the island because of it was the highest elevation . the japanese shelled the island in 1942 and the men living on jarvis were evacuated soon afterward . the united states claimed possession of jarvis under the guano islands act of 1856. the act gave american citizens the right to claim any unclaimed , uninhabited islands for the purpose of mining guano . because at the time guano was a very valuable asset used for fertilizer .