Oliver &amp; Company    oliver & amp ; company oliver & company is a 1988 american animated movie . it was produced by walt disney feature animation and released by walt disney pictures . it is the twenty-seventh movie released in the walt disney animated classics series . the movie was released on november 18 , 1988. it is loosely based on charles dickens 's book `` oliver twist '' . the book has been used many times for the screen and television . in this version , oliver is a cat , fagin 's gang is made up of dogs , and the story is set in modern-day new york city . it was re-released in the united states , canada , and the united kingdom on march 29 , 1996. it was then released to video later that same year , and again in 2002 and 2009 on dvd . it is disney 's fifth animated movie to take place in the present day of its release ( 1988 ) and being set in new york city . it is the second movie to feature the walt disney pictures logo . the movie starts with oliver , an orange orphan cat , who is lost in new york city , when a street-smart jack russell terrier named dodger , finds him . dodger tricks oliver to get some sausages for him ( from a hot dog seller named louie ) , dodger leaves the cat behind and runs to the barge of his poor owner , fagin the pickpocketer . inside fagin 's barge are four other dogs , which he also owns : tito the chihuahua , einstein the great dane , rita the afghan hound , and the serious bulldog francis . when oliver breaks in , those dogs ( including dodger ) go into a fit of fighting and confusion over their visitor . after fagin breaks it up , he goes outside on a quay , only to find out that he must pay his agent , sykes , some money within three days . in order to get the money , fagin , his dogs , and oliver set out into the city streets the next day . while the poor man is unlucky trying to sell his useless stuff , the animals encounter a limousine that is driven by winston , a butler . they put on an act to get his attention . in the end , tito gets `` barbecued '' after interfering with the limousine 's dashboard , and jennifer finds the kitten , who is tangled up in the wires nearby . taking oliver home at fifth avenue , she makes friends with him . she names him oliver . oliver discovers true friendship and love . the next morning , fagin 's dogs return in order to get oliver back to their barge , much to the upset of winston and his pet poodle , georgette . but as they do so , oliver feels he can not leave jenny . yet he is fagin 's best hope , because of the gold tag on his collar . so he writes to the `` very rich cat owner '' at oliver 's address in hopes of getting sykes ' money faster . as jenny reads that letter after she comes home from school , she and georgette go to the docks to get oliver . jenny gets him back , thanks to fagin , but then sykes kidnaps her for the sake of the ransom that the pickpocketer has to pay in 12 hours . it is up to fagin and his dogs to save both jenny and oliver from the wrath of sykes and his dobermans , roscoe and desoto .