Rock music     rock music is a genre of popular music . it developed during and after the 1960s in the united kingdom and the united states . it originally started in the 1940s and 1950s with the start of rock and roll . rock and roll grew out of rhythm and blues and country music . rock music is related to a number of other genres such as blues and folk . it has influences from jazz , classical and other music genres . musically , rock mostly uses the electric guitar as part of a rock group with bass guitar and drums . rock music is song-based . it has a 4/4 beat and it has verse-chorus form . however , rock has become very different and it is hard to say what its common musical instruments are . like popular music , rock music lyrics are mostly about `` romantic love '' . they can also have social or have political themes , however . rock focuses on musical skill , live performance , and it tries to be more real than pop music . by the late 1960s , a number of different rock music below-genres had come out . these included hybrids like blues rock , folk rock , country rock , and jazz-rock fusion . from these forms , the counterculture developed psychedelic rock . new genres that came from this scene included progressive rock , glam rock and heavy metal . progressive rock made the music more artistic . glam rock focused on showmanship and what you can see . heavy metal which focused on loudness , power and speed . in the second half of the 1970s , punk rock both intensified and reacted against some of these trends to produce a raw , energetic form of music characterized by overt political and social critiques . punk caused other below-genres to come about into the 1980s , including new wave , post-punk and eventually the alternative rock movement . from the 1990s , alternative rock began to be the most popular type of rock music . it broke through into the mainstream in the form of grunge , britpop , and indie rock . more merging of below-genres have since emerged . these include pop punk , rap rock , and rap metal , as well as conscious attempts to revisit rock 's history , including the garage rock/post-punk and synthpop revivals at the beginning of the new millennium .