Longboarding     longboarding is a form of skateboarding . instead of using a `` normal '' -sized board , the longboarder uses a board that is generally longer than a skateboard , hence the name ; longboards can range from 33.5 '' all the way up to 42 '' ( there are some cases in which boards can be a lot longer all the way up to 60+ '' ) . longboarding was invented by milterz.instead of skating on ramps and half-pipes , the longboarder can skate down long and steep hills , turning ( `` carving '' ) back and forth across the hill 's face to slow down , as a skier would . the longboard is also much more efficient for `` cruising '' , or , simply getting around , as longboards typically are faster , more stable , and less tiring to propel than short ( `` freestyle '' , i.e. , trick ) boards . unlike a bicycle , a longboard is less vulnerable to theft , as one 's board may be carried under one 's arm , or stashed in a coat closet at work . advanced longboarders may be seen `` sliding '' ( skidding sideways ) to slow their boards on really steep hills . special gloves incorporating a hockey-puck-like friction pad velcroed to the palm may be worn , which assists in both balance and braking , allowing one hand to be dragged on the ground . a lot of longbarders just make their own gloves , from sections of sliced-up cutting board epoxied to the palm and fingers of work gloves . on narrow , terribly steep hills ( such as in san francisco , for example ) , there 's not enough room to carve back and forth to keep one 's speed down , and `` bombing '' ( dashing downhill ) similarly could result in an accident or uncontrollably high speed , and so sliding was invented by a california surfer . sliding is a difficult and advanced method of slowing a board , though . while learning the slide , full pads and a helmet are a must . during more ordinary city commuting , the easiest ( and first ) braking skill one learns is simply to drag the toe or heel of one 's rear foot on the ground . the trucks ( swivelling axles ) of a longboard turn far more freely than that of a freestyle board .