Franz Kafka     franz kafka ( born prague july 3 , 1883 – died near vienna june 3 , 1924 ) was a czech-born , german-speaking writer . his best known works are `` the metamorphosis '' and the novels `` the trial '' and `` the castle '' . not much of his work was published during his lifetime . he asked his friend to make sure that all his writings which were not published , including his three novels , would be destroyed when he died . fortunately his friend did not destroy them , and they were published after kafka ’ s death . kafka ’ s writings are about the frightening world around him which he often did not understand . a typical situation in his books might be someone who has gone somewhere to take a message , but he does not know what the message is or who it is for . the people he meets confuse him even more . sometimes , when people find themselves in strange , nightmarish situations like this , they are described as kafkaesque situations . kafka was born into a middle-class jewish family . his father was a merchant . he was very strict and unkind to his family . kafka ’ s stories often have fathers who are very brutal and unkind . kafka spent most of his life living at home . he never married or became free from his parents . he felt that he had no will of his own . he wrote about people who are dominated by some mysterious power . he found it difficult to make friends , he hated his job and everyone around him . he often felt that he belonged nowhere . he was german-speaking but lived in a czech-speaking country ( bohemia , part of the austro-hungarian empire , now part of the czech republic ) . he was different because he was jewish , but he did not become part of the jewish community either . he said that he was a socialist and an atheist , but although he was interested in politics he never took part in political activity . he supported czechs who wanted to rule their own country and let their culture flourish , but he was not one of them because he himself was brought up in a german culture .