Formula One     formula one is a type of motorsport . teams compete in a series of grand prix races , held in different countries around the world . some of the most popular races are held in monaco , japan , italy and britain . the cars are very fast , reaching speeds of up to 350 kilometers per hour . the championship has been won many times by different teams like mclaren , ferrari and williams . teams can consist of as many as 600 people , who all come together every race weekend , and using each of their individual expertise try to obtain the best result - a victory . the winning driver and team each get twenty-five points towards the drivers ' and constructors ' championship . teams consist of drivers , test drivers , a team principal , mechanics , engineers , and designers . winning a race takes a good qualifying position , flawless strategy , perfect pitstops and a fast car . if you get the most poles ( first place ) then you get a trophy . this was added in 2014 drivers are paid huge salaries and money to risk their lives every time they step into the cockpit of the f1 car . like all types of motor racing , the dangers associated with formula one are great . therefore , there are many safety measures . drivers wear 4 layers of flameproof overalls , made of a fire resistant material called nomex . a drivers helmet must be able to resist an 800 degree celsius flame for at least 45 seconds , as well as big g forces . the helmets are so strong that they can be driven over by trucks with no damage being done to them . carbon fibre is the ideal material for the bodywork of formula one cars , as it is light and strong . because of this , the cars are very expensive to build and repair . the design of cars differs from team to team . each team has two entries into the championship , which means two cars to build . the current tyre suppliers are pirelli - making sure every car has the right tyre for the differing weather conditions . wet weather driving is considered a skill in formula one , as the cars are harder to drive .