Mary (mother of Jesus)    mary ( mother of jesus ) in abrahamic religions , mary ( judeo-aramaic מרים maryām `` bitter '' ; ( maryam ) ; septuagint greek μαριαμ , mariam , μαρια , maria ; ) was the mother of jesus . her story is told in the new testament of the bible . christian beliefs about mary are based on the bible . the gospel of matthew and the gospel of luke say that mary was a young woman who was engaged to be married to a man called joseph . the gospel of luke says that the angel gabriel came to mary to tell her that she would give birth to a son . the angel told mary that she should call her son jesus . the angel also said that jesus would save people from their sins . mary asked the angel how she could be pregnant , since she was a virgin . the angel told her that god had made her pregnant through a miracle . in the sixth month , the angel gabriel was sent from god to a town of galilee called nazareth , to a virgin betrothed to a man named joseph , of the house of david , and the virgin ’ s name was mary . and coming to her , he said , “ hail , favored one ! the lord is with you. ” but she was greatly troubled at what was said and pondered what sort of greeting this might be . then the angel said to her , “ do not be afraid , mary , for you have found favor with god . behold , you will conceive in your womb and bear a son , and you shall name him jesus . he will be great and will be called son of the most high , and the lord god will give him the throne of david his father , and he will rule over the house of jacob forever , and of his kingdom there will be no end. ” but mary said to the angel , “ how can this be , since i have no relations with a man ? ” and the angel said to her in reply , “ the holy spirit will come upon you , and the power of the most high will overshadow you . therefore the child to be born will be called holy , the son of god . and behold , elizabeth , your relative , has also conceived a son in her old age , and this is the sixth month for her who was called barren ; for nothing will be impossible for god. ” mary said , “ behold , i am the handmaid of the lord . may it be done to me according to your word. ” then the angel departed from her.according to the law that israelites follow , joseph had the right to divorce mary publicly , but he did not . in a dream joseph was told that mary conceived by the holy spirit .