Benzene     benzene , also known as benzol , is an organic chemical compound with the formula ch . it is a colorless and flammable liquid with a sweet smell . benzene molecules are a ring of six carbon atoms that are each bonded to one hydrogen atom . it is an `` aromatic '' compound , meaning the ring has alternating double bonds . benzene is carcinogenic , which means it can cause cancer . it has many real-world uses . it is used as an additive in gasoline , plastics , synthetic rubber , dyes and it is an industrial solvent , which means it can dissolve many other chemical molecules . benzene is also a natural part of crude oil and is therefore present in gasoline . many medicines contain parts made from benzene . benzene has special properties called aromaticity . all six carbon atoms in the ring are on the same flat plane . to account for all the bonds on a six carbon ring , there must be alternating double carbon bonds ( conjugated system ) : if benzene had three double bonds , three sides of its ring would be shorter than the other three sides . x-ray diffraction shows that all of six carbon-carbon bonds in benzene are of the same length of 140 picometres ( pm ) . the c–c bond lengths are greater than a double bond ( 135 pm ) but shorter than a single bond ( 147 pm ) . this intermediate distance is consistent with electron delocalization : the electrons for c–c bonding are distributed equally between each of the six carbon atoms . the molecule is planar . one representation is that the structure exists as a superposition of so-called resonance structures , rather than either form individually . ( in other words , the molecule 's double bonds switch quickly between pairs of carbon atoms . ) the delocalization of electrons is one explanation for the thermodynamic stability of benzene and related aromatic compounds . it is likely that this stability contributes to the peculiar molecular and chemical properties known as aromaticity . to indicate the delocalized nature of the bonding , benzene is often depicted with a circle inside a hexagonal arrangement of carbon atoms .