Romantic music     romantic music is music written in the 19th century . this was the period called the “ romantic period ” by musicians . in literature and some other arts the “ romantic period ” is often said to begin and finish earlier : around mid 18th to mid 19th century . in the classical period artists liked to see clear forms . 18th century architecture nearly always shows a lot of symmetry . the gardens of the palace at versailles are a good example of this with their very tidy patterns of straight paths , circular ponds and neatly clipped hedges . in music the classical composers such as haydn , mozart , beethoven , and schubert liked to compose music which had a clear plan like sonata form . in the romantic period artists thought that feeling and passions were more important than formal plans . this can be seen in the gardens designed by capability brown , e.g . in at blenheim palace , oxford . the gardens are made to blend into nature . in music the romantic composers may still use plans like sonata form , but feelings and passions are important . they often write what is called programme music which means : music that describes something or tells a story . beethoven ’ s sixth symphony is called the “ pastoral ” which means that it is about the countryside . although beethoven is usually called a composer of the classical period he is also an early romantic . later composers such as felix mendelssohn wrote pieces like `` hebrides overture '' which describes the sea coming into fingal ’ s cave in the hebrides islands in scotland . hector berlioz ( 1803-1869 ) wrote a lot of music which tells a story . his `` symphonie fantastique '' is about an artist madly in love . berlioz ’ s whole way of life was wild and romantic . he fell in love with an actress he saw on stage playing the part of juliet in shakespeare ’ s `` romeo and juliet '' and he actually married her ! other composers who wrote a lot of programme music include franz liszt ( 1811-1886 ) and richard strauss ( 1864-1949 ) . strauss always wrote in a late-romantic style even although he lived well into the 20th century .