Polyphemos     polyphemos ( or polyphemus ) is a cyclops in greek mythology . he is the son of the god poseidon and thoosa . polyphemos is a creature of strength and immense stupidity who broke the cardinal rule of hospitality in ancient greece . he lived in a cave on an island , and he had sheep . on the island also lived several other kyklopes . polyphemos appears in homer 's `` odyssey '' . on his journey home to ithaca after the trojan war , odysseus lands on the island of polyphemos . they come to the cave where polyphemos lives . polyphemos comes back and he traps them in his cave placing a boulder in front of the entrance , also eating some of odysseus ' men . odysseus then thinks of a plan to get away . he tells polyphemos that his name is `` nobody '' , and gives him wine to drink . when he is sleeping , odysseus and his men take a log from the fire and shape the end of it to a point and drive it into the kyklops ' , polyphemos , only eye , so he could not see them anymore . in agony he cries out to the other kyklopes for help . when they ask what has happened , he says that `` nobody '' hurt him , so the kyklopes leave him . the next morning polyphemos lets his sheep out of the cave , but touches their backs so no one of the men could ride out on them . but odysseus and his men hold themselves on the underside of the sheep , and so they get out . when polyphemos realizes that odysseus got away , he cries out to the other kyklopes again . they asked him what happened , and he said `` nobody hurt me . `` , and so the other kyklopes went away again . when odysseus was on his ship again , he called out in rage to polyphemos saying that he , odysseus was the one who had destroyed his eye . as odysseus went away he mocked polyphemos . this is hubris . polyphemos was very angry and threw a rock at them , but it missed the ship . then he pled with his father , poseidon , for revenge that all of odysseus ' men should die and that odysseus should only come home to ithaca after ten years . all of it comes true , as is told in the `` odyssey '' .