Ayurveda     ayurveda is an ancient medical science . the word , ayurveda is composed of two words of sanskrit , `` ayur '' ( meaning life ) and `` veda '' ( meaning knowledge ) . thus ayurveda is a medical science of ancient india . it deals with matters relating to health , day-to-day life and longevity ( long life ) . ayurveda is a traditional system of medicine and medication , based on experience and observation . this system of medicine and medication is more than 3000 years old . according to mythological story , dhanvantari was the first physician to use ayurveda . in modern india also , ayurveda is being used . it has also reached outside india in countries like the uae and saudi arabia and several persons from other countries also take advantage of ayurveda . in ayurveda we view a person as a unique individual made up of five primary elements . the elements are ether ( space ) , air , fire , water , and earth . just as in nature , we too have these five elements in us . when any of these elements are present in the environment , they will in turn have an influence on us . the foods we eat and the weather are just two examples of the presence of these elements . while we are a composite of these five primary elements , certain elements are seen to have an ability to combine to create various physiological functions . ether and air combine to form what is known in ayurveda as the vata dosha . vata governs the principle of movement and therefore can be seen as the force which directs nerve impulses , circulation , respiration , and elimination . fire and water are the elements that combine to form the pitta dosha . the pitta dosha is the process of transformation or metabolism . the transformation of foods into nutrients that our bodies can assimilate is an example of a pitta function . pitta is also responsible for metabolism in the organ and tissue systems as well as cellular metabolism . finally , it is predominantly the water and earth elements which combine to form the kapha dosha . kapha is what is responsible for growth , adding structure unit by unit . another function of the kapha dosha is to offer protection . cerebral-spinal fluid protects the brain and spinal column and is a type of kapha found in the body . also , the mucousal lining of the stomach is another example of the kapha dosha protecting the tissues . we are all made up of unique proportions of vata , pitta and kapha . these ratios of the doshas vary in each individual ; and because of this , ayurveda sees each person as a special mixture that accounts for our diversity .