Concerto     a concerto is a piece of music made for a solo instrument and an orchestra . when an orchestra plays at a concert they might play a symphony ( a piece for orchestra ) and they might play a concerto ( with a soloist ) . if the solo instrument is a violin the piece is called a “ violin concerto ” , if it is a piano it is called a “ piano concerto ” , etc . the orchestra accompanies the soloist . this means that it is the soloist who decides how fast or slow to play . the conductor should listen to the way the soloist wants to play and make the orchestra accompany sensitively . the word “ concerto ” is an italian word ( the second “ c ” is pronounced like an english “ ch ” ) . it means “ agreeing ” or “ playing together ” . the english plural is “ concertos ” . the concerto became popular during the 17th century in italy . some concertos had several soloists instead of just one . this kind of concerto was called a concerto grosso . the solo concerto became popular with composers like antonio vivaldi ( 1678-1741 ) who wrote over 400 concertos for various instruments . his most famous concertos are a group of four known as `` the four seasons '' . these are violin concertos , and each concerto deals in turn with one of the seasons : spring , summer , autumn and winter . many other baroque composers wrote concertos : johann sebastian bach ( 1685-1750 ) wrote several concertos for violin although only two have survived , the others have been lost . he also wrote solo concertos for the harpsichord . george frideric handel ( 1685-1759 ) wrote concertos for the organ . organs in england were very small in those days and balanced well with an orchestra . handel sometimes put pauses in his concertos where the soloist could improvise ( make up ) some music . these improvised bits became known as “ cadenzas ” . concertos ever since have cadenzas where the soloist can show how brilliant they are at playing and at improvising . some composers wrote their own cadenzas .