South Korea     south korea is a country in the southern part of the korean peninsula , in the north east region of asia . the capital city is seoul . the official name of south korea is the republic of korea in english , 대한민국 ( daehanminguk ) in korean writing ( hangeul ) , and 大韓民國 in chinese characters ( hanja ) . about half of the country 's people live in its capital city , seoul , or near the city in the metropolitan area . korea 's seoul metropolitan area is one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world . in fact , some sources say it is the second most populous after tokyo , japan . south korea 's history began with dangunwanggeom 's gojoseon . gojoseon was conquered by han china . after gojoseon collapsed , there were a lot of countries such as buyeo , okjeo , dongyae and samhan . but baekje , goguryeo and silla were the strongest . so their period began , and it is called the three kingdoms period . goguryeo and baekje were conquered by silla and dang china 's allied forces , and silla unified the three kingdoms . there was another country , balhae . balhae was founded by dae jo-young . later silla and balhae 's period is called south and north countries period . a rebellion in later silla caused the birth of a new nation : goryeo , which was founded by wanggeon . mongolia 's invaded goryeo . near the end of the goryeo period , there was a great general lee seong-gye . the king of goryeo directed him to occupy yodong , but he opposed . however , lee seong-gye went to yodong to occupy it , but he returned to goryeo and he revolted . his revolt succeeded , and he founded the country joseon . joseon 's first king , taejo , moved the capital to hanyang ( seoul ) . joseon 's fourth king , sejong , made the korean alphabet , `` hangeul '' . joseon 's twenty-second king , jeongjo , built hwaseong fortress in suwon . joseon 's twenty-sixth king , gojong , changed the country 's name to daehanjeguk . when daehanjaeguk 's power weakened , japan occupied it for 35 years until japan 's defeat in world war ii in 1945. in 1950 , there was a big war , the korean war . as a result , korea was split into two countries , north and south .