Bratislava     bratislava is the capital city of slovakia . about 450,000 people live there . it used to be called pressburg ( german ) or pozsony ( hungarian ) and by some other names . bratislava is the seat of national government , the presidency , and the parliament . it has several museums , galleries and of other educational , cultural and economic institutions . there is a small old town , and a castle called bratislavský hrad . the danube river goes through bratislava . bratislava had many names through its history . here are some of them : - german : `` preßburg '' ( now spelled `` pressburg '' ) - slovak : `` prešporok '' , from german name - hungarian : `` pozsony '' ( still used today by hungarians ) - greek ( medieval ) : `` istropolis '' ( meaning the danube city ) - latin : `` posonium '' - english : `` pressburg ( h ) '' / '' pressborough '' and many others . bratislava is in the extreme southwest of slovakia , on the borders with austria and hungary , and not far from the czech republic border . it is on the morava and danube rivers . people have lived here since the neolithic age . the celts inhabited this area from 400 bc-50 bc . the roman empire set up border military camps near bratislava from the 1st century until the 5th century , for example `` gerulata '' . the slavs started moving here from the 6th century . bratislava was part of the slavic empire called great moravia in the 9th century . from the second half of the 10th century until 1918 , it was part of the kingdom of hungary , with some exceptions . it was even capital of the kingdom between 1524 and 1830/1848 . after the world war i ended in 1918 , it was part of newly founded czechoslovakia until 1939 , when it became capital of world war ii slovak republic until 1945. after 1945 , it was part of czechoslovakia again , becoming capital of slovak socialist republic ( which was still part of czechoslovakia ) in 1968. after the event called velvet divorce , when the czechoslovakia broke up , bratislava became capital of slovakia .