Thomas Hobbes     thomas hobbes ( 5 april 1588–4 december 1679 ) was a philosopher from england . his most famous book is `` leviathan '' ( 1651 ) . hobbes mainly wrote about government and law—he was a political philosopher . he tried to show that the best kind of government has one in which society was organised under one authority . all individuals in that society give up some rights for the sake of protection . there is no doctrine of `` separation of powers '' in hobbes 's discussion . according to him , the sovereign power must control civil , military , judicial , and ecclesiastical powers . the most interesting thing about hobbes was the way he argued . he started by looking at human nature . he said that humans are very selfish and that we are willing to hurt each other if we think it will help us . he also said that , naturally , humans are all equal because we are all strong enough to kill each other—even a child can kill a strong man while he sleeps . then he imagined what things would be like without a government . he said that it would be terrible—a `` state of war '' . there would not be enough stuff for everyone , and people would disagree about who got what . some people would fight each other , and everyone else would be very worried about their own safety . no one would be able to trust anyone else or make plans for the future . life would be `` solitary , poor , nasty , brutish , and short '' ( people would be alone , poor , mean , and would not live for long ) . next , hobbes argues that it would be a good idea for everyone to stop fighting and choose a sovereign which could be one man or an assembly of men . everyone should agree to obey the sovereign , and give him all power of coercion or force of restraint under law . once the sovereign is in place , everyone has to obey him , even those who disagree with him . this is because everyone already agreed to obey him no matter what . hobbes says it 's better to be mostly safe under an all-powerful sovereign , than to be in a state of war .