Dictatorship     a dictatorship is a form of government where one person or political party has the power to do whatever they want . the ruler is called a dictator . in a dictatorship , the individuals rights are generally speaking , suppressed . dictators come to power for a number of reasons or social issues such as massive unemployment , inflation , and unrest among the population . dictators are normally backed by powerful groups , such as landowners , private company owners , bank owners and in some cases institutions like the roman catholic church to put in place law and order by force . this force may be directed at the poorer parts of society , such as unemployed workers , ethnic minorities , working class areas andshanty towns . examples of this are the dictatorships in latin america and the prosecution of the jewish community in 1940s germany . dictators normally need to do a number of things to put in place their dictatorships : they need to get rid of their opponents ( which may be political or religious ) - some are imprisoned , exiled ( sent outside their country ) or killed . dictators will then need to prohibit ( or not allow ) political parties that oppose their rule . they will confiscate the political parties ' property or offices and such things . dictators may suppress or persecute some religious groups or institutions . dictators will also need to undo or close down democratic institutions such as parliament and in some cases the congress . some social organizations , such as civil rights groups , human rights organisations , legal aid centres , students ' unions , teachers ' federations , trade or workers unions are also undone and those who persist with such activities may be killed . dictators will normally rewrite an existing constitution or put in place a completely new one . this makes their power constitutional ( which then can not be disputed ) . dictators then maintain their rule with state terrorism , which normally involves a secret police , death squads , random or night curfew , indefinite arrest without trial and a network of torture centres and concentration camps . some dictatorships create a fictional ( or non existent ) internal ( inside their country ) enemy which they claim to be at war with to justify ( give reason for ) their use of much military violence against a whole unarmed population .