Stanley Kubrick     stanley kubrick ( july 26 , 1928 - march 7 , 1999 ) was an american movie director . kubrick is thought to have been one of the great directors of the 20th century . he was born in new york city but lived most of his life in england . his movies are respected for their great amount of detail and symbolism . some of his movies were controversial when they were first shown . for example , the sex and violence in his movie `` a clockwork orange '' was very disturbing to many people who saw it when it was released in 1971. the reaction to the movie in the united kingdom became so great that stanley kubrick stopped showing the movie there for over 25 years . other famous movies that kubrick made include `` dr. strangelove or : how i learned to stop worrying and love the bomb '' , `` '' and `` the shining '' . stanley kubrick died from a heart attack on march 7 , 1999. kubrick was born in the bronx , new york city and lived there during his youth . stanley was a poor student in school but his father , who was a doctor , taught stanley how to play chess and gave him a camera . kubrick finished high school in 1946 and could not get into a college . this was because of his poor grades in school and because colleges were full with many american soldier 's who returned from world war ii that same year . during this time , kubrick played games of chess with people for money . he was a good chess player and won many games . he used the money he won from playing chess to buy food and photography equipment . kubrick got a job at a magazine in new york city that was called look magazine . kubrick also enjoyed watching movies and thought that he could make better movies than the movies that were being made at the time . he first made two small documentaries . one of them was about a boxer and was called `` day of the fight '' . the other documentary was about a religious man and was called `` flying padre '' . he then made two full-length movies ( called feature films ) that made other people interested in his work . the first feature film was called `` fear and desire '' and the other was called `` killer 's kiss . '' his third feature film , called `` the killing '' , was a success . the success of `` the killing '' allowed stanley to work on a bigger movie , called `` paths of glory '' , that was about world war i and was made with the famous actor kirk douglas . at this time kubrick became well known in the movie industry and had started to create his own style .