Ice hockey     ice hockey is a sport that is played by two teams on ice . the players wear ice skates on their feet and can skate across the ice at very high speeds . they hold hockey sticks , which they use to push , shoot or pass a puck around the ice . the players score by shooting the puck into a net ; the goaltenders try to stop them . six players on each team play at once , but a whole team has over 20 players . each team has 2 defenders , 3 forwards , and a goalie on the ice at a time . when a player breaks a rule , a referee calls a penalty , and the player has to sit in a penalty box for 2-4 minutes . while the player sits in the penalty box , his team has to play without him , and will have fewer players on the ice until the penalty is over . ice hockey is very well-known and well-liked in canada , russia , sweden , finland , the czech republic , the united states , latvia and slovakia . most of the best players in the world play in the national hockey league ( nhl ) , which has 30 teams in the united states and canada . these teams are divided 2 conferences and 4 divisions . in the regular season , they play 82 games . each team faces each other about 3 times . they try to win the stanley cup at the end of the year . another popular hockey league is the kontinental hockey league ( khl ) , which has teams in russia , kazakhstan , latvia , belarus , slovakia , china and croatia . in north america , women play in the canadian women 's hockey league and the western women 's hockey league . in north america and europe , men 's hockey is much more popular than women 's hockey . hockey is played by both men and women at the olympic games , and at world championships . ice hockey began in canada in the 19th century . there are two types of penalty : the major and the minor . the minor is the main one the referee will call during a game and the players have to go in the penalty box for two minutes . the major is when players fight with each other or when someone did something very dangerous . most of time players are kicked out of the games but in a fight they only get 5 minutes in the penalty box . in the national hockey league ( nhl ) there are four referees . two lineman and two head referee . only head referees can call the penalty . they can be recognized by the orange armband on their arm . in the major league , the game is separated into three periods of 20 minutes . for the minor league , the time can be different for each category . each period starts after the face-off . a face-off is when two teams are in position around the face-off circle . then , the referee drops the puck between the players who play center . there are 6 different positions : center , right wing , left wing , right defense , left defense and goalie . the play is over after a whistle of any referee . after a whistle-blow , the time stops running . each team can have a maximum of 20 players , including two goaltenders who have a zone to defend . each team has one captain and two or three assistant captains . the ice is separated into three zones . each zone is marked by lines . the center zone is between two blue lines and team zones are between one blue line and the end of the ice . the lineman can whistle for two reasons : icing and offside . an icing is when a player throws the puck into the zone before he crosses the red line ( center line ) and an offside is when a player enters the zone before the one who has the puck enters with it .