Pishin     pishin ( ) is a small town in pishin district , balochistan , pakistan . famous past residents of pishin include the pashtun politicians qazi musa and his wife jennifer musa , who took up politics following her husband 's death . pishin ( pashto : پشین ) is a small town located in the pishin district of balochistan province , pakistan . it is the capital of the district , [ 1 ] and is located in the east of the province at 30°35'0n 67°0'0e near the border with afghanistan with an altitude of 1555 metres ( 5104 feet ) . [ 2 ] tremors from the 2008 pakistan earthquake were felt in the town . surrounding areas are yaro , saranan , nowabad and milkyar . during world war ii , the british built two air bases in the district of pishin , one near the town of pishin and the other in saranan . the runways of the air base are still in good condition . فہرست [ چھپائیں ] 1 history 2 geography , weather and agriculture 3 famous people history [ ترمیم ] old name pashung which later became pishin . pishin houses ethenic pashtun tribes of syed , kakar , and tareen . there is considerable number of settlers as well in the district . tomb of khan of kalat is near old grave yard of pishin city , who was kept under custody in pishin by britishers in late 1890 's . district is bordered by qilla saifullah and loralai in east , afghanistan to the north and qilla abdullah to west . an agricultural dependent area , which produces chunk of fruit that includes grapes , apple , peach , plums and berreys . general populace is educated with literacy rate of 55 % ( male 74 % and females 30 % ) . khanozai being the most literate area . pishin is hidden in far history however it played a bright role in anglo-afghan wars fought between britain forces and afghan tribes . the tribes contributed very much assistance to malik baran khan tareen of haikalzai who was fighting against the english forces . the tribes from pishin used to attack the convoys of british forces when they were on their way to afghanistan to fight .