The Sims 3     the sims 3 is a computer game for microsoft windows and mac os x. it was released on june 2 , 2009 and is a sequel to the popular `` the sims '' and `` the sims 2 '' computer games . there have been versions of the game for consoles and mobile phones as well . `` the sims 3 '' was a success right when it was released . the game has sold 1.4 million copies in its first week and over ten million copies worldwide to date . the sims 3 is made with the same idea as the games before it . the player controls their own sims in activities and relationships in a similar manner to real life . the game play is open-ended and has no limits . sims houses and neighborhoods are in one huge map . the developers stated , `` what you do outside your home now matters as much as what you do within . '' the game includes an optional feature called `` story progression '' , which allows all sims in the neighborhood to continue on their own as if the player were controlling them , such as grow up , get married , get jobs and promotions , have children , and build or buy their dream house while the player is not playing . the sims 2 used a reward system called wants and fears . this is replaced with a new system called wishes in the sims 3. completing a sim 's wish helps the sim 's lifetime happiness score and mood . some wishes , such as `` go to the park '' , may add little points to their lifetime happiness while `` have a baby boy '' may add thousands of points . in the sims 2 , wants and fears also contributed to a sim 's `` aspiration '' meter , the same to current self-esteem . in the sims 3 , aspiration is removed entirely , replaced with `` moodlets '' , which contribute good or bad values to the original motivation meter . moodlets can be inspired by physical events , such as having a good meal or comfort from sitting in a good chair , as well as emotional events like a first kiss or a break-up . most moodlets last for a set amount of time , but some bad moodlets can be cured ( such as the one caused by a need to use the bathroom ) and some positive ones rely on the sim 's surroundings and traits .