Punjab (British India)    punjab ( british india ) punjab was a province of british india , it was one of the last areas of the indian subcontinent to fall under british rule . with the end of british rule in 1947 the province was split between india and pakistan . the area that made up british punjab streched from himachal pradesh in the east to khyber pakhtunkhwa in the west , which itself was separated in 1909 ; has today been split into the following areas : - punjab province , pakistan - punjab state , india - haryana state , india - himachal pradesh state , india - delhi state , india ( after the revolt of 1857 ) - chandigarh , former part of punjab - islamabad capital territory , pakistan the word punjab is named from the `` five rivers '' which flow through it : the jhelum , chenab , ravi , beas and sutlej , all tributaries of the indus . the punjab province of british india was a triangular area of country bordered by the indus and the sutlej rivers . in 1947 , the province of punjab was divided between the new republics of india and pakistan . the mostly muslim western part of the province became pakistan 's punjab province ; the mostly sikh and hindu eastern part became india 's punjab state in 1966. many hindus and sikhs lived in the west , and many muslims lived in the east , and so the partition saw many people displaced and much intercommunal violence . lahore and amritsar were at the center of the problem , the british were not sure where to place them - make them part of india or pakistan . the british decided to hand both cities to india , but because of a lack of control and regulation for the border , amritsar became part of india while lahore became part of pakistan . areas in west punjab such as lahore , rawalpindi , multan , gujrat , had a large sikh population and many of the residents were attacked or killed by radical muslims . on the other side in east punjab cities such as amritsar , ludhiana , and gurdaspur had a majority muslim population in which many of them were wiped out by sikh guerrillas who launched an all out war against the muslims .