Breaking Dawn     breaking dawn is the fourth and last novel in the `` twilight '' series by stephenie meyer . the novel is divided into three sections called 'books ' . the story in book one and book three is told from the perspective of bella swan . book two is from the perspective of jacob black , bella 's werewolf friend . `` breaking dawn '' was released on august 2 , 2008 with a special midnight release in many bookstores . as the book opens , bella is driving a mercedes guardian that edward has bought to protect her from getting into trouble . after informing bella 's parents of their engagement , bella and edward marry in a traditional wedding ceremony . the wedding has a minor disturbance during a confrontation between jacob , bella and edward . not wanting to spoil her wedding day , bella puts aside her disappointment in jacob 's unpleasantness . edward and bella soon depart for their honeymoon off the coast of brazil . edward then fulfills bella 's wish and makes love to her . the next day they argue because edward 's passionate lovemaking leaves dark bruises all over bella 's body . he then refuses to make love to her while she is still human . meanwhile , she has a recurrent dream of a small , green-eyed boy that she feels compelled to protect she also has dreams of her and edward making love . bella also finds herself constantly hungry and sick . but soon after bella awakes in the middle of a dream crying ; edward asks whats wrong and instead of telling him she decices to show him and kisses him very passionately and edward gives in . they have made love more than twice and upon seeing a box of unused tampons in her suitcase , she realizes that her period is late and she is pregnant . though bella has not longed for a child , she becomes immediately attached to her baby when she becomes aware of its existence . edward , however , is only concerned for her health , and after hearing stories from a local woman ( who suspects that edward is a vampire ) of similar situations that resulted in the mothers ' deaths , edward wants to get rid of the baby . book one ends as edward prepares to bring bella home where he says that carlisle will `` take care of it , '' and as bella secretly calls rosalie for help .