The X Factor (UK)    the x factor ( uk ) the x factor is a british television programme , in which ordinary people who want to be singers compete for a recording contract and a cash prize . it is shown from august-december each year on saturdays and sundays on the channel itv . the show started being presented by kate thornton , but she left in series 3 ( 2006 . ) ben shephard was hoping to present , but w his offer was turned down . instead , dermot o'leary took over in series 4 ( 2007 ) and presented for 8 series , until his departure from the show in series 10. olly murs and caroline flack became the first duo to host the show , but only lasted one series , mainly because they were very unpopular with the public . surprisingly , dermot o'leary is returning to present the x factor for its 13th series . there have been either three ( series 1-3 ) or four ( 4-present ) judges on the x factor uk . the show was created by simon cowell , who , along with sharon osbourne and louis walsh , were judges in the first three series . in 2007 , dannii minogue joined the panel , to 'bring some youth to the panel . ' however , sharon osbourne announced her leave at the end of the series . she was replaced by cheryl cole in series 5. in 2010 , dannii and cheryl both quit , although cheryl later became a judge on the x factor usa . simon cowell also left in order to focus on the x factor usa . gary barlow replaced simon and became head judge . kelly rowland and tulisa contostavlos ( better known as just tulisa ) also joined louis and gary . kelly only stayed for a year , and was replaced by nicole scherzinger in series 8. tulisa was fired at the end of series 8 , being replaced by sharon osbourne , who made a return for one series only . she , gary and nicole all announced their leave at the end of the series . following the axing of x factor usa , simon cowell returned to the show for series 11. cheryl cole also returned , and mel b joined the show as a replacement for nicole . mel and louis both quit at the end of the series , and were replaced by rita ora and nick grimshaw . as far as series 13 goes , only simon cowell is returning to the show , as cheryl , rita and nick have all left the show .