Rain gauge     a rain gauge is an instrument used by meteorologists and hydrologists to measure precipitation ( e.g . rain , snow , hail or sleet ) in a certain amount of time . it usually measures in millimetres . rain gauge is a meteorological instrument for determining the depth of precipitation ( usually in mm ) that occurs over a unit area ( usually one metre squared ) and thus measuring rainfall amount . one millimetre of measured precipitation is the equivalent of one litre of rainfall per metre squared . usually a tapering funnel of copper or polyester of standard dimension allows the rain water to collect in an enclosed bottle or cylinder for subsequent measurement . the gauge is set in open ground with the funnel rim up to 30 cm above the ground surface . some gauges are calibrated to allow the amount of rainfall to be read directly ; with others it must be calculated from the depth of water in the container and the dimensions of the funnel . the second type of rain gauge is the autographic gauge which can be either of the tilting-siphon type or the tipping-bucket type . the recording chart on an autographic rain gauge is mounted on a drum which is driven by clockwork and typically rotates round a vertical axis once per day . for a tilting-siphon rain gauge , the rainwater in a collector displaces a float so that a marking pen attached to the float makes a continuous trace on the paper . the two buckets in a tipping-bucket rain gauge rest on a pivot so that when one bucket has received 0.2 ( or 0.5 mm ) of rain it tips by gravity , empties the rainwater and allows the other bucket to start collection . during the tip , an electrical switch is closed and triggers a nearby autographic recorder to register each 'tilt ' , thus giving a fairly continuous record of precipitation and , in a more sophisticated form , even rainfall intensity . rain gauges must be sited in as representative a location as possible , but the choice of location is difficult , since many precipitation events are highly aggregate . king sejong the great was the man who introduced rain gauge to the world .