Dead Memories     `` dead memories '' is the third single by slipknot from their fourth album , `` all hope is gone '' . the song was released on december 1 , 2008. the music video for the single was directed by p. r. brown and shawn crahan . the music video for `` dead memories '' was directed by p. r. brown . on september 30 , 2008 , the band 's record label `` roadrunner records '' released a 15 second teaser video on youtube which showed vocalist corey taylor in what looks like to be a grave in heavy rainfall . the video came out on mtv 's `` headbangers ball '' on october 25 , 2008 as part of the `` headbangers ball '' 20th anniversary special programming . the concept of the music video was percussionist shawn crahan 's idea . crahan calls the music video a `` short film '' and said that it was a `` very '' expensive video to make . crahan 's original idea was to have several rooms , he shared his idea with to vocalist corey taylor who decided what each room would be . the video starts off with taylor seen without his mask and dressed in casual clothes carrying a shovel and smoking a cigarette . he walks from an urbanized area ( in the extended version , he is seen walking through a park , before approaching a car and smashing its headlights ) in to a more rural area in the fields and begin to dig at the ground . he then seemingly falls through the ground and into a room below dressed in his slipknot mask and cover-alls . the first room , which is a dark room with faint red lighting shows turntablist sid wilson who is seen barefoot , climbing all over the walls and is covered in dust and cobwebs . taylor opens the drapes to attempt to look out of the window but can only see dirt . wilson is then seen physically trying to stop taylor from leaving the room by grabbing his pant leg . however , taylor eventually leaves the room and enters a second which is occupied by drummer joey jordison , with tree branches instead of fingers and a crown of thorns on his head . the room features many photographs of jordison on the walls and he is sitting in a chair surrounded by several females . taylor walks around the scene looking at them without interacting with jordison or the females , there is a moment in which jordison is looking in a mirror and taylor suddenly appears . taylor then leaves the room and enters a third which is occupied by sampler craig jones who is standing straight upright and does not move throughout the scene . when taylor enters the room the video is solarized and remains so throughout the time taylor 's in there . taylor walks around jones and inspects his mask and is seen touching the nails protruding from it . jones then lights a smoke flare , which blinds taylor , and is seen holding it in his right hand , but he [ taylor ] finds the door then leaves the room and enters a fourth which is occupied by bassist paul gray .