Legal precedent     in common law legal systems , a precedent or authority is a legal case that establishes a principle or rule . this principle or rule is then used by the court or other judicial bodies use when deciding later cases with similar issues or facts . the use of precedent provides predictability , stability , fairness , and efficiency in the law . the latin term stare decisis is the doctrine of legal precedent . the precedent on an issue is the collective body of judicially announced principles that a court should consider when interpreting the law . when a precedent establishes an important legal principle , or represents new or changed law on a particular issue , that precedent is often known as a landmark decision . precedent is central to legal analysis and rulings in countries that follow common law like the united kingdom and canada ( except quebec ) . in some systems precedent is not binding but is taken into account by the courts . precedent that must be applied or followed is known as `` binding precedent '' ( alternately `` mandatory precedent '' , `` mandatory '' or `` binding authority '' , etc. ) . under the doctrine of `` stare decisis '' , a lower court must honor findings of law made by a higher court that is within the appeals path of cases the court hears . in the united states state and federal courts , jurisdiction is often divided geographically among local trial courts , several of which fall under the territory of a regional appeals court , and all regional courts fall under a supreme court . by definition decisions of lower courts are not binding on each other or any courts higher in the system , nor are appeals court decisions binding on each other or on local courts that fall under a different appeals court . further , courts must follow their own proclamations of law made earlier on other cases , and honor rulings made by other courts in disputes among the parties before them pertaining to the same pattern of facts or events , unless they have a strong reason to change these rulings .