Cinderella (1950 movie)    cinderella ( 1950 movie ) cinderella is a 1950 american animated musical fantasy movie produced by walt disney . it was released to theaters on february 15 , 1950 , by rko radio pictures . it is the 12th movie in the walt disney animated classics series . it is based on the fairy tale `` cendrillon '' by charles perrault . it was directed by clyde geronimi , hamilton luske and wilfred jackson . the songs in the movie were written by mack david , jerry livingston , and al hoffman . songs in the movie include `` a dream is a wish your heart makes '' , `` bibbidi-bobbidi-boo '' , `` so this is love '' , `` sing sweet nightingale '' , `` the work song '' , and `` cinderella '' . a live-action re-imagining produced by walt disney pictures , directed by kenneth branagh and starring lily james as cinderella , richard madden as prince charming , cate blanchett as lady tremaine , and helena bonham carter as the fairy godmother , was released in 2015. it was a commercial success , and branagh 's highest-grossing film to date . in a far away , long ago kingdom , cinderella is living happily with her mother and father until her mother dies . cinderella 's father remarries a cold , cruel woman who has two daughters , drizella and anastasia . when the father dies , cinderella 's wicked stepmother turns her into a virtual servant in her own house . meanwhile , across town in the castle , the king determines that his son the prince should find a suitable bride and provide him with a required number of grandchildren . so the king invites every eligible maiden in the kingdom to a fancy dress ball , where his son will be able to choose his bride . cinderella has no suitable party dress for a ball , but her friends the mice , lead by jacques and gus , and the birds lend a hand in making her one , a dress the evil stepsisters immediately tear apart on the evening of the ball . after that the stepmother and the stepsisters went to the ball and cinderella cried in the garden . her sadness finished after her fairy godmother by used the magic gave to her a coach , a coachman , horses , a footman and a light beautiful silver with diamonds ball gown with glass slippers , but the godmother warns cinderella must return before midnight because everything will turn in their true form . in the ball she and the prince falls in love and the king believes cinderella is the best daughter-in-law but at midnight cinderella hurry went away but forgot her one glass slipper after that the prince search for her by all the young maids wear the slipper . when cinderella learned that accidentally uncovered to her stepmother who locked her in her room . but when the duke came in the home and the stepsisters started to wear the slipper cinderella 's mice friends jaq and gus took the key and freed cinderella who by wear the slipper married the prince and lived with her love and friends happily ever after .