Chittagong Hill Tracts     the chittagong hill tracts ( bengali : পার্বত্য চট্টগ্রাম ) , ( parbotto chôṭṭogram ) comprise an area of 13,189 km2 in south-eastern bangladesh . the area forms the border of bangladesh with the republic of india and burma . it was a single district of east pakistan till 1971. in that year it was divided into three separate districts : khagrachari , rangamati and bandarban . topographically , this is the only hill intensive area of the people 's republic . with a population of around 800,000 indigenous peoples ( native ( non-bengali ) . the chittagong hill tracts is one of the most diverse regions in the country in terms of geography , ethnicity , culture and traditions of the people . the indigenous distinct jumma people are distinct and different from the majority bengali people of present-day `` bangla-desh '' in respect of race , language , culture , heritage , religion , political history and economy . when india was split into two separate countries in 1948 , the radcliffe line gave this area to east pakistan ( bangladesh ) , which was mostly muslim , even though most people in the area were buddhists . today most people are buddhist , some christians and animists . the major ethnic groups among 13 peoples are the chakma , tipra , murong and magh , marma , tanchangya , mro , lushai , khumi , chak , khiyang , bawm , pangkhua and with the ten indigenous languages . beside , a very small number of descendants of ahamiya , gorkha and santal also live there . they collectively identify themselves as the jumma people ( high landers ) , the first people of the cht.but almost 50 % of the present day 's population are immigrated bengali muslim settlers . since the independence of bangla-desh the indigenous population was faced with increasing immigration of settlers from the mainland , fostered by the central nationalist government . among the tribal nations first political and civil , later ( since the 1980s ) armed resistance was organised , especially by the shanti bahini guerrilla movement . in reaction the whole region was heavily militarised and the police and army unleashed a wide spread repression with a serious human rights violations . the 5-points-manifesto of the jana samhati samiti , released on 7 september 1987 , was focused on a well entrenched autonomy :