Combined oral contraceptive pill     the combined oral contraceptive pill ( cocp ) is a contraceptive for women . it is often called birth control pill or simply `` the pill . '' the pills contain hormones that make the women who take them infertile . women who take the pill will not become pregnant during sexual intercourse . when a woman stops taking the pills , she will usually become fertile again . when taken as prescribed , the pills are one of the safest methods of contraception . in the 1950s , scientists ( such as carl djerassi ) realized that the hormone progesterone stopped women from making eggs ( stopped ovulation ) . after this discovery , the combined oral contraceptive pill was created . the combined oral contraceptive pill has two female hormones : estrogen and progesterone . some oral contraceptive pills have only progesterone . these are often called the `` minipill '' . the combined oral contraceptive pill is thought to be safe and usually works well . in the united states , the combined oral contraceptive pill was first given to women in 1960. it is extremely effective at preventing pregnancy if it is used in the right way . it may also make women 's menses shorter and with less bleeding , which most women like . and unlike barrier methods , hormonal methods do not interfere with sex . when a woman is `` on the pill , '' , she and her man are usually not even aware of it during sexual intercourse , which seems and feels very natural . the couple can have sex at any time they wish ; they don ’ t need to interrupt foreplay to put birth control in place , and they can feel the physical sensations and emotional closeness of intercourse without interference from a make or female condom . unlike coitus interruptus , when a woman is on the pill , intercourse usually ends with her man reaching orgasm while inside the vagina , which both the man and woman usually find very pleasurable . for all of these reasons , the pill is very popular . in 2005 , more than 80 million women across the world used the pill . it is the most common method of contraception in the united states , with four out of five women there having used the pill for birth control at some point in their lives . use of the pill is different in different countries , and among women of different ages and levels of education . both single women and married women use the pill in large numbers .