Pink Floyd discography     pink floyd are an english progressive rock band . pink floyd has released fourteen studio albums , three live albums , eight compilations , three soundtracks , thirty-five singles , eleven music videos , four video albums and three box-sets . formed in 1964 , pink floyd was first known for their psychedelic or space rock music and in later years their progressive rock music . they are known for philosophical lyrics , sonic experimentation , innovative cover art , and big live shows . one of rock music 's most successful acts , the group have sold over 210 million albums worldwide , including 74.5 million albums in the united states alone . pink floyd had moderate mainstream success and were one of the most popular bands in the london underground music scene in the late 1960s led by syd barrett ; however , barrett 's decline in health would eventually forced his band members to replace him with guitarist and singer david gilmour . after barrett left the group pink floyd released `` ummagumma '' . the album was released as a double disc , the first disc contained songs performed live the other disc contained the new studio recorded songs . singer and bass player roger waters gradually became the leader of the band in the mid-1970s , until 1985 when he left the group . the band recorded several albums , achieving worldwide success with `` the dark side of the moon '' ( 1973 ) , `` wish you were here '' ( 1975 ) , `` animals '' ( 1977 ) , and `` the wall '' ( 1979 ) with all of them topping the american record chart with the exception of animals . `` the dark side of the moon '' is the third best-selling studio album in the world ( not counting compilations and various artists soundtracks ) . in 1985 , waters stated that pink floyd was no more , but the remaining members , led by gilmour , continued recording and touring under the name pink floyd . waters sued the remaining members for the rights to the name , waters lost and the band enjoyed worldwide success with `` a momentary lapse of reason '' ( 1987 ) and `` the division bell '' ( 1994 ) .