Niobe     in greek mythology , niobe ( νιόβη ) was the daughter of the semi-legendary ruler tantalus , called the `` phrygian '' and sometimes even as `` king of phrygia '' tantalus ruled in sipylus , a city located at the western end of anatolia . the city has the same name than the mountain on which it was founded ( mount sipylus ) and of which few traces remain , and not in the traditional heartland of phrygia lying more inland and centered around gordion . niobe was an anatolian princess . she married amphion of thebes and greek mythology was a vehicle for her historical record mixed with legends . niobe was the sister of pelops , who gave his name to the peloponnese . according to the greek myth , niobe boasted of her superiority to leto because the goddess only had two children , the twins apollo and artemis , while niobe had fourteen children ( the niobids ) , seven male and seven female . her famously quoted speech which caused the indignation of the goddess is as follows : artemis killed niobe 's daughters and apollo killed niobe 's sons as they practiced athletics , with the last begging for his life . apollo and artemis used poisoned arrows to kill them , though according to some versions at least one niobid was spared , ( usually meliboea ) . amphion , at the sight of his dead sons , either killed himself or was killed by apollo for swearing revenge . a devastated niobe fled to mount sipylus ( spil mount ) of lydia in anatolia and was turned into a stone waterfall as she wept unceasingly . spil mount has a natural rock formation resembling a female face claimed to be niobe , not to be confused with a sculpture carved into the rock-face of nearby crag coddinus , north of spil mount , probably representing cybele and attributed by the locals to broteas , the ugly brother of niobe . the rock formation is also known as the `` weeping stone '' , as the stone is said to have wept tears during the summer . the rock appears to weep because it is porous limestone and rainwater seeps through the pores .