Christmas 1994 nor'easter     the christmas 1994 nor'easter was a strong cyclone along the east coast of the united states and atlantic canada . it developed from an area of low pressure in the southeast gulf of mexico near the florida keys , and moved across the state of florida . a weather system moved towards the southeast from the central great plains into the deep south of the united states . after entering the gulf of mexico , the weather system became a cyclone . an approaching trough pushed the system across florida . a forecaster at the national hurricane center , jack beven , said that `` as it [ the storm ] moved out into the bahamas , it appeared to take on the characteristics of a tropical storm . '' he also noted that because of the uncertainty , the national hurricane center did not call the weather system a tropical cyclone . the cyclone was said to be a `` hybrid '' storm . the cyclone quickly gained strength in warm waters from the gulf stream , and because of cold air over the united states . the system continued to become stronger while moving within the gulf stream . the storm developed central atmospheric convection , which is unusual for a storm of its type . extratropical cyclone . also , the system developed an eye , which is usually seen in tropical cyclones . even though the cyclone showed signs of a tropical storm , forecaster jack beven stated : `` there was no front associated with it [ the storm ] and it had a warm core , but the radius of maximum winds was more than 150 nautical miles [ 175 mi , 280 km ] , so under the standard nhc criteria it didn ’ t qualify as a tropical storm . '' on december 23 and 24 , the nor'easter intensified to attain a barometric pressure of 970|mb . another low pressure system that developed behind the storm became stronger , and grew to be larger in size than the original storm . due to the fujiwhara effect , the large circulation of the secondary low moved the original nor'easter towards the northwest . the nor'easter passed along the south shore of long island , and it made landfall near new york city on december 24. later , it moved over southeastern new york state . on december 25 , which is christmas day , the system began to lose strength as it moved towards nova scotia , before the pair of low pressure systems moved out to sea early on december 26 .