Kurohime (manga)    kurohime ( manga ) kurohime has 14 volumes ( on 2008 ) and is ongoing . magic in this world is used by gods and by some kind of humanans , called witches ( whether they are men or women ) . the magic used by th witches can be showed under many forms , for example can be mixed with human technology , for example a gun or a rifle . a common use of magic mixes with human technology for example is when kurohime , shot with her gun , magic bullets , that can invoke magical beasts as dragon or a demon . zero - a boy saved by kurohime in his childhood . over ten years , he trained and became a gunslinger . he uses 4 guns and is known for his incredible speed . he does not use his guns for killing and only uses them to help people . zero does n't use the magic , often is used by kurohime for to mix magic with technology . zero loves truly kurohime and in a part of series he will sacrifice his life for to save kurohime . kurohime - a magician who fights using magical bullets . ten years ago , she saves zero , influencing his decision to become a gunslinger . she is very self-centered , and is said to not be able to genuinely love . as a result , she defied the gods and was cursed to walk the world as a child . she can only revert to her adult form when she falls in love . when a child , she is addressed as himeko , and her magic powers are greatly hindered . the adult kurohime bears a strong resemblance to the goddess that cursed her ( in fact , they are both the same . kurohime was split into 2 in her battle against the gods ; one of `` good '' which holds all of her love and care and memories , and the other holding her `` bad '' side , which has no memories , except the anger and hatred . the latter is the current kurohime , while the former is the `` goddess '' who gave her the curse . ) she is also extremely beautiful and believes all men are her `` dogs '' . still , she has feelings for zero , even if she wo n't admit it . her name translates to `` black princess '' ( kuro is black and hime is princess ) . her chief weapon is her witch-gun , `` senryu '' ( which , when translated means tornado dragon ) . aside from being able to fire witch-bullets , senryu can fire normal bullets with cannon-like force . in the second arc , himeko receives the yamato-dachi from yamatohime after defeating gandhara . the sword fuses with senryu , allowing it to switch between sword ( yamato senryuto ) and gun ( yamato senryuho ) forms .