Oddworld     oddworld is a name given to a video game series that has won many awards . it was created by oddworld inhabitants and was founded by lorne lanning and sherry mckenna . the name is for both the series and the fictional universe where the games in the series take place . the first game in the series , `` '' was first sold in 1997 and was the first game for the oddworld quintology . between 1997 and 2005 , a total of four different games have been sold and from 2010-2012 munch 's oddysee and stranger 's wrath games were made for pc and made in hd for the playstation 3. the games have also been developed by several developers . gt interactive developed abe 's oddysee and abe 's exoddus , microsoft gaming studios developed munch 's oddysee , ea games developed stranger 's wrath , and just add water ( developments ltd ) have developed stranger 's wrath hd , munch 's oddysee hd , and oddworld : new 'n ' tasty . the games themselves were set in the part of oddworld called mudos . `` oddworld : abe 's oddysee '' was the first game in the series and the quintology . it is a 2d flip-scrolling platform game . it was first sold in september 1997 for the playstation video game console and microsoft windows . in the game , the player plays as abe who works in a meat processing plant called rupturefarms . the game flips through different screens . some screens have creatures from the oddworld universe which are programmed to kill abe . each abe game has a feature called gamespeak where abe can speak to his fellow mudokons and take control of the slig . this is done by chanting . once the slig is possessed , he can do what he could do whilst he was not possessed but he can shoot other sligs and slogs and unlock doors and electric walls the goal of the game is to save abe 's friends who are known as `` mudokons '' . there are 99 mudokons in the game . some of them are hidden in secret areas and when abe lands in a secret area , the game will give the player an audio cue . the game has two different ways it ends . if , at the end of the game , the player does not save at least 50 native mudokons , the bad ending will appear instead of the good ending . the game was re-released as classics on pc in 2008 on steam and then on ps3 on playstation network in 2009. a gameboy version called oddworld : adventures was released in 1998 by saffire corporation and it was a shorter version of abe 's oddysee .