Compromise of 1850     the compromise of 1850 was a series of laws passed in 1850 that dealt with the controversial issue of slavery in the united states . as a result of the mexican–american war , the united states acquired a great deal of new territory . the laws admitted california as a free state , and created the new territories of new mexico and utah . a dispute over the boundary between texas and new mexico was settled with texas losing the new mexico territory . it put an end to the slave trade in washington , d.c. and made it easier for southern slaveowners to recover runaway slaves . the compromise called for each new state to decide for itself whether it would be a slave or free state . this was called popular sovereignty , a term coined by stephen a. douglas in 1854 and later used in the kansas–nebraska act . the missouri compromise , passed in 1820 , was an agreement between the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the united states congress . it concerned the regulation of slavery in the western territories . it admitted missouri as a slave state to please the south . it admitted maine as a free state to please the north . it kept the balance of power in the united states senate between the free states and slave states . the plan also called for slavery to be banned from the louisiana territory north of the parallel 36 degrees 30 ' north ( also known as the missouri compromise line ) , except within the boundaries of the proposed state of missouri . it was a temporary measure that reduced the conflict over slavery . but there was continued resentment between north and south . the south resented congress interfering with slavery . the north resented having to compromise on the moral issues of slavery . both sides wanted the political power necessary for their issue to win . in his book `` negro president : jefferson and the slave power '' , historian garry wills wrote , “ the south was not demanding slave representation to achieve a near-parity at the moment , but as a way of achieving majority control in the immediately foreseeable future . ”