Moto GP on BBC     moto gp on bbc was a presentation of moto gp produced by bbc sports . races and qualifying are televised on bbc one , bbc two , bbc three or bbc hd and streamed live on bbc red button . in march 2003 , bbc signed a two year deal to broadcast moto gp races with suzi perry hosting all races while most rounds were shown on sunday grandstand or on grandstand if it was a saturday race . for 2003 , exclusive live coverage was on eurosport and bbc chose to broadcast four races live ( britain , pacific , australia and valencia . ) with their own commentary team for britain , australia and valencia of charlie cox and steve parrish , using the world feed commentary in the other races of nick harris and matt roberts with gavin emmett in the pits . delayed coverage was used in the remaining twelve races ( japan , south africa , spain , france , italy , catalan , dutch tt , germany , czech republic , pourtugal , rio de janeiro and malaysia . ) all races were shown on bbc two during the 2003 season . in 2004 , cox and parrish commentated full time with twelve live races ( south africa , spain , france , italy , catalan , britain , czech republic , pourtugal , japan , qatar , australia and valencia ) and with delayed coverage was used in the remaining four races ( dutch tt , germany , rio de janeiro and malaysia . ) most races were shown on bbc two during the 2004 season , only qatar was shown on bbc one because it was a saturday race . gavin emmett joined as pit reporter in 2005 and the bbc had ten live races ( spain , france , italy , catalan , britain , germany , czech republic , qatar , turkish and valencia ) and with delayed coverage was used in the remaining seven races ( pourtugal , chinese , dutch tt , united states , japan , australia and malaysia . ) most races were shown on bbc two during the 2005 season , only qatar was shown on bbc one because it was a saturday race . in 2006 all races were shown live with five races ( chinese , united states , japan , australia and malaysia . ) on the bbc red button while all the rounds were on bbc two including re runs from the early morning races . grandstand got written out by the bbc before the 2007 moto gp season started .