Turn Left, Turn Right    turn left , turn right turn left , turn right is a taiwanese picture book by writer jimmy liao . it is his classic work . the lead female character is living in an old apartment building on the edge of the city . every time she goes out , no matter where she goes , she always habitually goes left first . the lead male character is living in an old apartment building on outskirts of the city . every time he goes out , no matter where he goes , he always habitually go right first . he never meets her . but the city is like a maze , it lets people see the same scene , go the same route , to the same destination ; their habits make people 's lives not change . habit does n't only make people have a sense of security but an inexplicable loneliness , and their habits will make them miss something . she was used to turning left and he was used to turning right , but they never had a meeting with each other in the pictured fiction story , “ turn left , turn right. ” it was the first long fiction story written by jimmy liao , talking about the feelings between a man and a woman . the fiction story gives a detailed account of a very interesting relation in living between the leading man and the leading woman in chapter one . there are many bright ideas in this pictured fiction story including the lines and color , with much attention to detail , and good order changes . this book is not only one of his best fiction stories but also one of the greatest works of art . jimmy liao said that this fiction story ’ s idea began when one day he was too troubled to draw by the loud noises of workers from next door . he could not help but think specially pleasing thoughts on that day . all of a sudden , he got money from someone he never knew who was living nearby . he started imagining what would come about to this leading man and woman character 1 if they never knew they were neighbors but actually slept right next to each other only separated by only one thin wall . what if , the leading man and woman characters ran into each other not frequently , and they never talked to each other about where they lived ? they may never see each other again if they did not have knowledge that they were people living next to each other .