No Mercy (2007)    no mercy ( 2007 ) no mercy 2007 was a professional wrestling event available on pay-per-view made by world wrestling entertainment ( wwe ) . it was the ninth yearly no mercy event and took place on october 7 , 2007 at the allstate arena in rosemont , illinois . for the first time , there were three new wwe championship reigns in one night , as randy orton was awarded the vacant title ( previously held by john cena ) to start the event , only to lose it to triple h less than a half-hour later , but in turn regain it at the end of the night in a last man standing match . the other championship matches on the undercard were batista versus the great khali in a punjabi prison match for the world heavyweight championship , candice michelle versus beth phoenix for the wwe women 's championship , and cm punk versus big daddy v for the ecw championship . the main feud going into the event for the raw brand was between wwe champion john cena and randy orton . the feud began in july after orton was named the number one contender for cena 's wwe championship . at summerslam , cena won against orton , while at unforgiven , orton beat cena by disqualification . immediately after the match , acting `` raw '' general manager jonathan coachman , believing that cena got himself disqualified intentionally , made a rematch between the two at no mercy , this time in a last man standing match . on september 17 , after threatening to strip cena of his title for his actions at unforgiven , coachman ordered cena 's father , mr. cena , to face orton in a match . the match saw orton hit mr. cena with an rko , while john was forced to watch at ringside while handcuffed to a ring rope . the next week , coachman said that orton had been suspended indefinitely for his actions , although he later said that orton had simply been given the night off . the feud resumed on october 1 when orton , who earlier appeared `` via satellite from chicago '' , attacked cena after his match with mr. kennedy , knocking him out with an rko on the announce table . however , during the match , cena was legitimately injured , suffering a complete tear of his right pectoral tendon . as a result , the match was canceled , and on the october 2 version of `` ecw '' , wwe chairman vince mcmahon officially stripped cena of the wwe championship . no replacement match was ever announced , as mcmahon simply stated that `` a new wwe champion will be crowned this sunday . ''