Creation myth     a creation myth or creation story explains how the universe started , how the earth came to be , and why there are humans . creation myths are usually part of religions and mythologies . very often , creation myths say that humans were made by a god , spirit or other supreme being . in the beginning , there was just water . all the animals lived above it and the sky was overcrowded . they were all curious about what was beneath the water and one day dayuni'si , the water beetle , volunteered to explore it . he explored the surface but could not find any solid ground . he explored below the surface to the bottom and all he found was mud which he brought back to the surface . after collecting the mud , it began to grow in size and spread outwards until it became the earth as we know it . in the beginning nothing existed , darkness was all around . suddenly from the darkness came a thin disc , one side yellow and the other side white , appearing suspended in midair . within the disc sat a small bearded man , creator , the `` one who lives above '' . when he looked into the endless darkness , light appeared above . he looked down and it became a sea of light . to the east , he created yellow streaks of dawn . to the west , tints of many colours appeared everywhere . there were also clouds of different colors . he also created three other gods : a little girl , a sun god and a small boy . then he created celestial phenomena , the winds , the tarantula , and the earth from the sweat of the four gods mixed together in the creator 's palms , from a small round , brown ball , not much larger than a bean . the world was expanded to its current size by the gods kicking the small brown ball . creator told wind to go inside the ball and to blow it up . the tarantula , who knew what to do , spun a black cord and , attaching it to the ball , crawled away fast to the east , pulling on the cord with all his strength . tarantula repeated with a blue cord to the south , a yellow cord to the west , and a white cord to the north . with mighty pulls in each direction , the brown ball stretched to immeasurable size -- it became the earth ! no hills , mountains , or rivers were visible ; only smooth , treeless , brown plains appeared . then the creator created the rest of the beings and features of the earth .