Bobby V     robert `` bobby '' wilson ( born february 27 , 1980 ) , better known by his stage name bobby v and formerly bobby valentino , is an american r & b singer . born in jackson , mississippi , bobby moved to atlanta , georgia where he attended north atlanta high school . he returned there to appear in the debut episode of once upon a prom aired on mtv may 19 , 2007. he first entered the music scene in 1996 , at that time using his real name - bobby wilson , with the now-defunct youth quartet mista . some years after mista disbanded , he enrolled in clark atlanta university where he majored in mass communications , graduating in 2004 with a bachelor of arts degree in mass communications . discovered while singing on the bus , bobby v first made his mark as the lead singer in the hit teen group , mista . as a new found member of the organized noize family , bobby learned firsthand how great music was made from icons such as outkast , tlc , and goodie mob . in 1996 the group released their self-titled debut album and produced chart topping single , `` blackberry molasses , '' which still remains a classic to this day . a second unreleased album was recorded with hit makers , tim & bob and delite , but creative differences split the group . after earning his degree in 2003 , bobby returned to the studio full-time and changed his name to valentino ignoring the fact that the name bobby valentino was already in use by a uk singer , songwriter and violinist . bobby v tried to jump start his career by auditioning for the first season of the hit reality show american idol , but was rejected by judges , simon cowell and randy jackson . however , with three albums of demos and by chance one of them got in the hands of multi-platinum recording artist ludacris . immediately impressed by his talents , ludacris and his business partner , chaka zulu ( president of dtp ) signed v as the first r & b artist on disturbing tha peace records . soon after , v was re-introduced to the world as a solo artist and featured on the hit single , `` pimpin all over the world `` off of ludacris ' multi-platinum selling album `` the red light district `` in 2004 .