Royal Rumble     the royal rumble is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event , aired every january by world wrestling entertainment ( wwe ) . the show 's main event is a battle royal-type match , named the royal rumble match . the pay-per-view is part of wwe 's `` big four '' , along with wrestlemania , summerslam , and survivor series . the royal rumble is also one of wwe 's more popular pay-per-views . since 1993 , the winner of the rumble match has received a title match at that year 's wrestlemania . the idea behind the royal rumble match is credited to pat patterson . before the match begins , the contestants draw spots in the rumble . the match consists of thirty men , beginning with the two men who chose entry numbers one and two in the ring . at regular timed intervals , usually ninety seconds , one of the remaining 28 wrestlers enters the ring . participants must eliminate all other opponents , and the winner of the event is the last wrestler remaining after all others have been eliminated . similar to a battle royal , a wrestler is eliminated when thrown over the top rope , with both feet touching the floor . a referee , who is seated at ringside , must see an elimination in order for it to be valid . a wrestler who is eliminated without a referee noticing may sometimes sneak back into the match . for example , stone cold steve austin was eliminated during the 1997 event , but he re-entered without the referees ' seeing and eventually won the match . a wrestler who leaves the ring without going over the top rope is not eliminated from the match . during the 1999 rumble match , both vince mcmahon and steve austin left the ring , only to return later in the match . in the 1994 match , the last two wrestlers , bret hart and lex luger were declared co-winners when it was decided that both of their feet touched the floor at the same time . a similar situation occurred in the 2005 match , however the match was restarted after batista and john cena eliminated each other at the same time . batista eliminated cena afterwards to win the match .