Scarlett Johansson     scarlett johansson ( born november 22 , 1984 ) is an american actress , model and singer . she is best known for her roles in the movies `` the avengers '' , `` lost in translation '' , `` match point '' , and `` the prestige '' . scarlett johansson was born in new york city , new york on november 22 , 1984. her father , karsten johansson , is a danish-born architect originally from copenhagen , and her paternal grandfather , ejner johansson , was a screenwriter and director . her mother , melanie sloan , a producer , comes from an ashkenazi jewish family from the bronx . melanie 's ancestors emigrated to new york from minsk , tsarist russia . she has an older sister , vanessa , also an actress ; an older brother , adrian ; a twin brother , hunter ( who appeared with her in the film `` manny & lo '' ) ; and an older half-brother , christian , from her father 's first marriage . johansson is registered as an independent and campaigned for democratic candidate john kerry in the 2004 united states presidential election . about george w. bush 's 2004 reelection , she said , `` [ i am ] disappointed . i think it was a disappointment for a large percentage of the population . '' johansson also campaigned for democratic candidate barack obama : her efforts included appearances in iowa during january 2008 , where her efforts were targeted at younger voters ; an appearance at cornell college ; and a speaking engagement at carleton college in northfield , minnesota on super tuesday , 2008. johansson appeared in the 2008 music video for the black eyed peas front man will.i.am 's song , `` yes we can '' , directed by jesse dylan , a song inspired by obama 's speech following the 2008 new hampshire primary . on february 7 , 2012 , johansson and anna wintour hosted a fashion launch of pro-obama clothing , bags and accessories , with proceeds going to the president 's re-election campaign . she addressed voters at the democratic national convention on september 6 , 2012 , calling for president obama 's reelection and for more engagement from young voters .