William Hovell     william hilton hovell ( april 26 1786 — november 9 1875 ) was an english explorer of australia . together with hamilton hume he discovered much of victoria . william hovell was born at yarmouth , norfolk , england . he joined the royal navy and became a captain . in october 1813 , he moved to new south wales with his wife esther arndell . he got work as a ship captain and made several trading trips along the coast and to new zealand . in 1816 he was shipwrecked in bass strait . in 1819 he lived near sydney and did some exploring to the south . he discovered the burragorang valley in 1823. in 1824 , governor sir thomas brisbane asked hovell to go with hamilton hume to explore the south part of new south wales and victoria . he wanted to know more about any rivers that might run south . hovell was not an explorer but he knew how to navigate ( find out where he was ) . there were problems deciding who was going to pay for the expedition . the two explorers bought most of the equipment . the government provided saddles , clothes , blankets and guns . hume and hovell left sydney on october 3 1824 , with six men , five bullocks , three horses and two carts . the murrumbidgee river was in flood so they had to make one of the carts into a kind of boat to get across . the men , horses , and bullocks swam over . a day or two later , in rough hilly country , they had great difficulty in finding a path for the carts . on october 27 they decided to leave them behind . they came to a large river on november 16 , which hovell called `` hume 's river '' `` he being the first that saw it '' . this was the murray river renamed by charles sturt a few years later . it was impossible to cross here ( near the site of albury ) , but after a few days they found a better place . they built the rough frame of a boat and managed to get across . by december 3 , they had reached the goulburn river . during the next ten days it was hard traveling through rough country , but they did get to more level and open land .