El Muerto (movie)    el muerto ( movie ) el muerto ( also called the dead one , el muerto : the dead one , the dead one : el muerto , or the dead one : an american legend ) is a 2007 movie . it was made from the story of the comic book superhero el muerto . it was written and directedby brian cox ( director ) . wilmer valderrama starred as the main character , el muerto/diego de la muerte . also starring were angie cepeda as diego 's girlfriend , joel david moore as diego 's best friend , and billy drago played as the bad guy . the movie tells the story of diego de la muerte , a 21-year-old mexican-american who is sacrificed by the aztec gods of death and destiny to fulfill an ancient prophecy . the movie is rated pg-13 for violence and some disturbing images . the movie premiered on march 1 , 2007 and was released on dvd september 18 , 2007. it won the best feature film award at the first whittier film festival in 2008. at the start of the movie , a young diego is crossing illegally in to the united states from mexico . along the way , he meets an old aztec man who tells him about a shortcut across a river . before they get there , the old man performs an ancient ritual to the aztec god of sacrifice and dies . diego is then left alone at the river . ten years later , diego is living in east los angeles , california . he has a girlfriend maria somera and lives with his best friend zak silver . maria 's uncle , a priest of a local church does not like diego 's sympathy for the aztec religion . this usually causes diego and maria to meet in secret . when a local dia de los muertos ( `` day of the dead '' ) festival is to take place , a celebration with aztec roots , diego becomes excited . he dresses as an undead mariachi with the traditional facepaint . unfortunately , he has to go alone because both zak and maria are busy the night of the celebration . while driving to the festival , diego 's car crashes and he is killed . he later wakes up in mictlan , the aztec land of the dead . there he is sacrificed in an ancient ritual by the god of death and sent back to the land of the living a year after his death . he later learns that the old gods want to rule their world again . three sacrifices representing the church that took away their power must be made . this puts maria 's life is at risk because she is a descendent of one of the first churches in mexico . now diego must fight against the gods that made him to save the woman he loves .