Toy Story 3     toy story 3 is a 2010 american 3-d computer-animated movie . it was released by pixar animation studios on june 18 , 2010. it is a sequel to `` toy story '' and `` toy story 2 '' . a 17-year old andy ( john morris ) is packing for college and his toys , who have not been played with in a long time , feel forgotten and abandoned . andy decides to take woody ( tom hanks ) with him to college and intends to store the other toys in the attic . a misunderstanding with andy 's slightly aged mother ( laurie metcalf ) results in the other toys being thrown away , making them think they are no longer wanted ; they escape and decide to climb in a box to be donated to a daycare center called sunnyside , along with woody . andy 's toys are welcomed by the numerous toys at sunnyside , and given a tour of the seemingly perfect play-setting by lots-o'-huggin ' bear ( ned beatty ) ( a.k.a . `` lotso '' ) , lotso 's chief enforcer big baby ( woody smith ) , and the smooth-talking ken ( michael keaton ) , the latter of whom barbie ( jodi benson ) falls in love with . all of the toys are quickly enamored with their new home , leaving woody to try to return to andy on his own . however , woody is picked up outside the school by a little girl named bonnie anderson ( emily hahn ) . she takes him home and plays with him along with her other toys , who are well treated , happy , and readily welcome woody . woody is elated until he hears about lotso from chuckles the clown ( bud luckey ) . lotso , along with big baby and chuckles , were once accidentally lost by their original owner , daisy . the three found their way back to their owner 's home , but lotso saw that he had been replaced . even though chuckles realized the truth , an embittered lotso convinced big baby that they were abandoned , and used big baby 's size to help him take control of the toys at sunnyside in the fashion of organized crime . worried for his friends , woody hurries back to the daycare and finds that they have been put on task to be played with the rambunctious , toy-abusing youngest toddlers . they are also kept under guard at night by buzz ( tim allen ) whom lotso has reverted to a demonstration state to destroy his memories , restoring his original `` space ranger '' persona and allying with him .