Wheel of Fortune (US game show)    wheel of fortune ( us game show ) wheel of fortune is a game show on television . it was created by merv griffin in 1975. it was first hosted by chuck woolery from 1975 until 1981. pat sajak has been hosting the show since 1981. the show has been aired in syndicated format since 1983. the game combines hangman with a wheel that gives away cash and prizes . at the beginning of the show , there is a $ 1,000 toss-up puzzle . during a toss-up puzzle , one letter at a time appears on the board . contestants can ring in to solve the puzzle before the last letter is revealed . an incorrect solution disqualifies that contestant for the rest of that round . a second toss-up is worth $ 2,000 and determines who starts round one . there are 24 spaces on the wheel . a contestant who lands on a cash space is credited with that amount multiplied by how many of a particular letter is in the puzzle . a contestant can buy a vowel for $ 250 . any contestant who lands on lose a turn loses his or her turn but not the winnings they have earned during the round . if a contestant lands on bankrupt , he or she will lose all of his or her winnings they have earned during the current round as well as a wild card . the wild card is used to call for another consonant while the wheel is still on the cash space a contestant landed on . also on the wheel are two `` 1/2 car '' tags . if a contestant wins a round with both tags , they win a car . both tokens offer $ 500 per letter if claimed . there is also a prize wedge and a gift tag . the prize wedge is a prize announced before the first round . to win it , a contestant has to land on the wedge , call a correct letter , and solve the puzzle without hitting bankrupt . the gift tag is $ 1,000 credit for purchases from a company . both tokens offer $ 500 per letter if claimed . in the first three rounds , there is a special wedge that , if claimed and bought to the bonus round , allows the contestant a chance to play for $ 1,000,000 in the bonus round . if a contestant lands on free play , he or she will not lose his or her turn for an incorrect guess or incorrect solution . a consonant is worth $ 500 . the top dollar value on the wheel is $ 2,500 in round one , $ 3,500 in the second and third rounds , and $ 5,000 from the fourth round on .