Georg Büchner     karl georg büchner ( 17 october 1813 – 19 february 1837 ) was a german dramatist and writer of prose . he was the brother of physician and philosopher ludwig büchner . many people think that he might have become as important as johann wolfgang von goethe and friedrich schiller if he had lived longer . he was the son of a doctor and born in goddelau near darmstadt , hesse-darmstadt . büchner went to a secondary school that focused on latin , greek and on modern languages ( including french , italian and english ) . but he was mainly interested in science and when he went to university he studied medicine in strasbourg . in 1828 he became interested in politics and joined a group which later on probably became the gießen and darmstadt section of the `` gesellschaft für menschenrechte '' ( society for human rights ) . in strasbourg , he studied not only medicine but french literature and political thought as well . while büchner continued his studies in gießen he started a secret society which wanted revolutionary change . with the help of the protestant theologian friedrich ludwig weidig he published the leaflet `` der hessische landbote '' , a revolutionary text that criticized social problems in the grand duchy of hesse . the authorities charged them with treason and issued a of . while weidig was arrested , tortured and died imprisoned in darmstadt , büchner fled across the border to strasbourg where he wrote most of his literary work and translated two plays by victor hugo , `` lucrèce borgia '' and `` marie tudor '' . two years later , his dissertation , `` mémoire sur le système nerveux du barbeaux ( cyprinus barbus l. ) '' was published in paris and strasbourg . the ideas of françois-noël babeuf and claude henri de saint-simon had an important influence on his work . in october 1836 he got a job at the university of zürich as a lecturer in anatomy and went back to zürich where he spent his final months writing and teaching until he died of typhus at the age of twenty-three .