Storm history of Hurricane Katrina     the meteorological history of hurricane katrina started on august 23 , 2005. hurricane katrina was extremely destructive category 5 hurricane which formed as tropical depression twelve near the bahamas . the next day , the tropical depression strengthened to a tropical storm , and was named `` katrina '' . katrina continued on to make landfall on the southern part of the u.s. state of florida as a category 1 hurricane . while passing across florida , katrina weakened to a tropical storm ; however , the warm waters of the gulf of mexico allowed it to rapidly intensify to the sixth strongest atlantic hurricane in recorded history . afterwards , katrina made landfall as a category 3 hurricane near buras-triumph , louisiana , and once more near the mississippi/louisiana border . katrina continued northward through the central united states and finally dissipated near the great lakes , when it was absorbed by a cold front . tropical depression twelve formed over the southeastern bahamas at 5:00 p.m. edt ( 2100 utc ) on august 23 , 2005 , partially from the remains of tropical depression ten , which had dissipated from the effects of a nearby upper tropospheric trough . while the normal standards for numbering tropical depressions in the atlantic shows that the old name/number is kept when a depression dissipates and regenerates , satellite data indicated that a second tropical wave combined with tropical depression ten north of puerto rico to form a new , much more advanced system , which was then named as tropical depression twelve . simultaneously , the trough in the upper troposphere weakened , causing the wind shear in the area to decrease , also allowing the new tropical depression to develop . in a later re-analysis , it was found that the low-level circulation of td ten had completely detached and dissipated , with only the remnant mid-level circulation moving on and merging with the second tropical wave mentioned before . as a result , the criteria for keeping the same name and identity were not met .