Martigny, Switzerland    martigny , switzerland martigny is the capital city of the french-speaking district of martigny in the canton of valais in switzerland . it is 495 meters high . it has a population of about 15,000 people . martigny is at the joining of italy , france and switzerland , one road linking this town over the great st. bernard pass to aosta ( italy ) , and the other one , over the col de la forclaz to chamonix ( france ) . in winter , martigny is appreciated for its nearby ski resorts like verbier . in the first century bce , present-day martigny was an oppidum or vicus of a celtic tribe , the veragri . it was then called octodurus or octodurum . when julius caesar was in gaul ( 57-56 bce ) , he sent servius galba with the twelfth legion and some cavalry into the country of the nantuates , veragri , and seduni . his purpose in sending this force was to open the pass over the alps , the pass of the great st. bernard , by which road the `` mercatores '' had been used to travel at great risk , and with the payment of great tolls . ( `` b. g. '' iii . 1 . ) the people of the alps allowed the italian merchants to pass , because if they plundered them the merchants would not come ; but they got as much out of them as they could . galba , after taking many strong places , and receiving the submission of the people , sent off two cohorts into the country of the nantuates , and with the remaining cohorts determined to winter in octodurus , which was in a valley with no great extent of level ground near it , confined on all sides by very lofty mountains . there is some level ground at martigny , and the valley of the rhone at this part is not very narrow . caesar says that the town of octodurus was divided into parts by a river , but he does not mention the river 's name . it is the dranse . galba gave one part of the town to the galli to winter in , and assigned the other to his troops . he fortified himself with a ditch and rampart , and thought he was safe . he was , however , suddenly attacked by the galli before his defences were complete or all his supplies were brought into the camp . thus began the battle of octodurus . the romans obstinately defended themselves in a six hours ' fight ; when , seeing that they could no longer keep the enemy out , they made a sortie , which was successful . the romans estimated the galli at more than 30,000 , and caesar says that more than a third part were destroyed . the slaughter of the enemy was prodigious , which has been made an objection to caesar 's veracity , or to galba 's , who made his report to the commander . it has also been objected that the valley is not wide enough at martigny to hold the 30,000 men . there may be error in the number that attacked , and also in the number who died . after this escape galba prudently withdrew his troops , and marching through the country of the nantuates reached the land of the allobroges , where he wintered .