Enrique Granados     enrique granados ( born lérida , spain , 27 july 1867 ; died in the english channel , 24 march 1916 ) was a spanish composer and pianist . he lived most of his life in barcelona . his favourite painter was goya and his best work , the piano pieces called `` goyescas '' , are inspired by goya ’ s paintings . granados started having piano lessons in barcelona and then went to paris where he studied privately with charles de bériot . he returned to barcelona in 1889 and the following year gave his first piano recital . he wrote a zarzuela ( light opera ) called `` maria del carmen '' . the king liked it very much and gave him an award . during the following years he composed a lot and performed with famous musicians such as jacques thibaud , pau casals and camille saint-saëns . his piano suite `` goyescas '' was first performed in barcelona in 1911 and then in paris in 1914 where it soon became extremely popular . he was persuaded to make `` goyescas '' into an opera . the opera was going to be performed at the paris opéra but , because of world war i it was performed in new york instead . granados was invited to go to new york to watch the first performance of his opera . he was very frightened of the sea , but eventually was persuaded to go . the opera was a great success when it was performed on 26 january 1916. granados felt that he was at the beginning of a successful career . president wilson invited him to play the piano at the white house . because of this invitation he missed the ship that would have taken him back to spain . he took a ship to england instead . in liverpool , he got off the ship and got onto another one which would take him to dieppe in france . the ship was called the `` sussex '' . when the `` sussex '' was in the middle of the english channel it was torpedoed by a german submarine . granados managed to get onto a lifeboat , but then he saw his wife in the sea and he jumped in to try to save her , but they both drowned .