Fucking Åmål    fucking åmål the movie was written and directed by lukas moodysson and was his first full-length movie . alexandra dahlström and rebecka liljeberg are `` elin '' and `` agnes '' . `` fucking åmål '' won four guldbagge awards at the 1999 awards ceremony . the movie was not filmed in åmål , the city that gives the name to the movie , but in trollhättan , another small city in sweden . the movie is really famous in lesbian environments around the world . the movie tells the story of two girls , agnes and elin , who go to school in the small town of åmål . elin is outgoing and popular , but finds her life unsatisfying and dull . agnes , by contrast , has no friends and is constantly depressed . agnes has a crush on elin , but can not find any way to express it . agnes 's parents worry about their daughter and try to make her happy . they throw a birthday party for her , but agnes is afraid no one will come . her friend , a girl in a wheelchair , shows up and agnes shouts at her in front of her parents , telling her they are only friends because no one wants to make friends with either of them . elin arrives late at agnes 's house , mainly as an excuse to avoid going to a different party , where there will be a boy she wants to avoid . elin 's older sister , jessica , who comes with her , dares her to kiss agnes , who is rumoured to be a lesbian . elin fulfils the dare , and then runs away . elin soon discovers that she is attracted to agnes but is afraid to admit it . she pretends to be in love with johan hult , the boy she avoided at the start . she loses her virginity to him , but later breaks up with him , telling him that she is in love with someone else , truly she understand that boys want just sex from the girls , so she try to see around herself , and she discovers the love for agnes . elin and agnes eventually show each other 's feelings at the end of the movie , where , after a climactic scene in a school bathroom , they decide to `` out '' their relationship to all students in the school .