Luna Lovegood     luna lovegood is a fictional character in the harry potter books written by j. k. rowling . she 's in ravenclaw and first appears in the movies and the books is in harry potter and the order of the phoenix . many people in the harry potter series think she is a strange girl . this has led to her having the nickname `` loony lovegood '' , but she does not change herself . she is the daughter of xenophilius lovegood , and lives near to the weasley 's house , in a black tower . in harry potter and the order of the phoenix harry first meets luna ( in her fourth year ) on the hogwarts express train where is described as having , waist-length , dirty blonde hair and a distant , look . harry thinks that she is odd because she was reading the quibbler upside-down , and wearing a necklace made of butterbeer corks and radish earrings . when harry first sees the thestrals ( black horse like creatures that can fly ) pulling the carts , luna tells him that she can see them too . both harry and luna could see the thestrals when most others could not because they had both seen death , and thestrals can only be seen by someone who has seen a death . later , luna tells harry that she and her father believe him about the conspiracy involving harry , and that they support him . when harry forms dumbledore 's army , luna joins and gets better at defensive magic . when gryffindor 's quidditch team played hufflepuff , luna supported gryffindor by making a life size lion hat that roared . later in the book , when harry was going to contact kreacher about the location of sirius black , luna kept watch for him , telling everyone that there was a gas leak . when professor umbridge 's inquisitorial squad ( a group of students who were given power over other students to punish ) found him , luna was captured and held by a slytherin . while being held , harry saw her looking out the window , as if she was bored . after they had escaped , it was luna 's idea to travel to the ministry of magic by thestral . during the battle at the department of mysteries luna took an active part in the fighting . after sirius 's death harry noted that luna was the only person that could truly comfort him about it , because , like harry , luna had also lost someone close to her , her mother .