9th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment     the 9th regiment illinois volunteer infantry was an infantry regiment that served in the union army during the american civil war . shortly after the battle of fort sumter , president lincoln called for 75,000 volunteers . they were to serve for three months . the state of illinois put out a call to form units . six companies came from st. clair county . madison county sent three companies . montgomery county sent one company . all nine companies met at springfield , illinois on 23 april 1861. there they were formed into the 9th regiment , illinois volunteer infantry . there were rumors that the confederates intended to invade at cairo , illinois . in response , orders were issued for the 9th infantry to occupy cairo . they arrived and set up camp on 1 may 1861. the first few months were spent on the mississippi river guarding cairo . their three-month enlistments were up in july . most of the men reenlisted for three years . in september the regiment moved to paducah , kentucky . there they did little more than drill practice . on 15 february 1862 they joined the fighting at the battle of fort donelson . their losses included 36 killed and 165 wounded , out of a total strength of 600. after the confederates surrendered , they were transported by riverboats up the tennessee river . they left the boats at pittsburg landing , tennessee and camped nearby . on 6 april 1862 they woke up to the sound of cannons . while they were waiting to join the battle , new orders were given . they were ordered to exchange their gray coats for union blue . this way they would not be mistaken for confederate troops . they then joined the battle of shiloh . they fought most of the day . at shiloh the 9th illinois had the highest casualties of any illinois unit . they lost 366 of their comrades they also fought at the second battle of corinth . the regiment was changed to the 9th illinois volunteer mounted infantry regiment on march 15 , 1863. on 9 july 1865 the 9th illinois infantry was mustered out ( released from military service ) at louisville , kentucky .