Viraj Dobriyal     viraj dobriyal is a character from the indian television series dil se di dua ... saubhagyavati bhava ? . the character was portrayed by actor karanvir bohra . viraj dobriyal is one of the most popular bad guy characters on indian television . he is a psychologically disabled man who has mood swings . on one side , viraj gets angry and after some span of time , he gets normal . he tortures and batters his wife jhanvi often even on a small mistake . he claims to be `` mr.perfect '' . due to viraj 's irrational and excessive abusive behavior , jhanvi suffers a miscarriage and runs away from his house and adopts a new personality `` sia '' . viraj finds that she is in delhi , so he hatches the plan to take her away . even things get worsen up when viraj takes raghav 's family as hostages and tried to kill raghav 's nephew krish . but in turn of events , raghav beats viraj and in turn viraj attacks sia in result of being arrested . after sia recovers , viraj wants revenge . now viraj gets arrested and sia gets engaged with raghav . a vengeful viraj , fakes his own death and escapes . viraj was tortured by a criminal , rana and gave shocks to him which turns viraj 's mind into a 7-year old kid . raghav now suspects if it its viraj 's new trick but viraj was in trouble . raghav , for sake of humanity helps him though viraj is coldblooded person . rana has past of killing raghav 's family and viraj knows it ( the reason rana disabled his mind ) . no sooner rana tries to suffocate viraj but saved by raghav . during treatment in hospital viraj regains his memory and kills the ward boy ( for not doing his duty ) . viraj , now a change of heart wants to forget sia , but during marriage of sia , a group of goons attacks raghav and accidentally kills him . sia blames viraj but he clearly denies . now he brings sia and tries to brainwash her memories of raghav but she claims that she loved raghav and not viraj . a furious viraj then kills sia . after her death , sia heart gets transpanted in ananya 's body . now viraj wants sia 's heart from anu 's body . but after a furious chases , viraj gets jailed and sentenced to 14 years in prison . viraj in last act of morality ask forgiveness to sia and confesses his crime to the world through news channel .