Totally Spies! The Movie    totally spies ! the movie totally spies ! the movie ( known as totally spies ! le film in france ) is a 2009 french - canadian animated action comedy movie . the movie is part of the `` totally spies ! '' series . it tells the beginnings of the three secret agents , how they met and their first mission as members of woohp . three newcomers , sam , clover and alex , come to los angeles and meet by chance , because they are entering the same high school . they are in fact followed closely by a secret agency , the woohp , who will recruit them for three seasoned spies . they agree to go through spy training and within 48 hours , they have completed it . after training , they are thrown into their first mission when rockstars have been abducted . they go to wolfman 's building and later find that each went through a make over by a mysterious machine called the `` fabulizor '' . they later see that everyone at school also had gone through the fabulizor and oinky ends up going through the fabulizor too . they are almost blasted by one of fabu 's minions in a fighter jet after avoiding miss skritch as they sneak back into school . tailing mandy that night , they find that all of those who went through the fabulizor became hypnotized by a special chip in their cheek bones . they then meet the mastermind behind the entire affair , fabu , a runway model who quickly lost his fame . the spies accidentally expose themselves and are captured by fabu 's strongest henchmen . he then relates his entire plan , to abduct everyone who went through the fabulizor and place them inside a special space station which he calls fabutopia ; then use a missile to destroy all of earth , before using his fabulizor in reverse and give the girls each horrible make overs . he then sets them to be blasted back to earth in rockets . but when tad meets the girls again , they are still imprisoned and he says he will let them fail the mission and stop fabu himself , taking all the credit and regaining his `` favorite agent '' status with jerry .