Live Forever     `` live forever '' is the third single off english rock band oasis ' debut studio album `` definitely maybe '' . the song was released on 8 august 1994. the song was written by noel gallagher in 1991 before he joined oasis . `` live forever '' was inspired by the rolling stones song `` shine a light '' . it featured an optimistic outlook which differed from the attitude of the grunge bands which were popular at that time . noel gallagher presented a fully composed `` live forever '' to the band for the first time in early 1993 during their rehearsals . according to drummer tony mccarroll , the band were awed by it . the demo version of the song begins with an acoustic guitar intro . while recording the album version , the producer owen morris cut out the intro and replaced it with a drumbeat that was played by mccarroll . morris further cut a second section in gallagher 's guitar solo . although gallagher was upset , morris felt the part had sounded `` a bit like fucking slash from guns n ' roses '' . the song is understood to be an ode to noel and liam gallagher 's mother peggy.in general , the lyrics to the song stress an optimistic outlook . noel gallagher explained that `` at the time . . . it was written in the middle of grunge and all that , and i remember nirvana had a tune called 'i hate myself and want to die ' , and i was like . . . 'well , i 'm not fucking having that . ' as much as i fucking like him ( nirvana frontman kurt cobain ) and all that shit , i 'm not having that . i ca n't have people like that coming over here , on smack , fucking saying that they hate themselves and they wan na die . that 's fucking rubbish . kids do n't need to be hearing that nonsense . '' while gallagher said that he did not intend `` live forever '' as a direct reply to nirvana or their music ( being a professed fan of the band ) , he differed the lives of cobain and his band at that point , saying , `` seems to me that here was a guy who had everything , and was miserable about it . and we had fuck-all , and i still thought that getting up in the morning was the greatest fuckin ' thing ever , 'cause you did n't know where you 'd end up at night . and we did n't have a pot to piss in , but it was fucking great , man '' . gallagher says that the line `` we see things they 'll never see '' is the most important line of the song and explained that old friends tend to laugh at jokes and stories that `` no one else gets '' .