Jean Dausset     jean-baptiste-gabriel-joachim dausset ( october 19 , 1916 – june 6 , 2009 ) was a french immunologist . dausset won the nobel prize in physiology or medicine in 1980 for his `` discoveries concerning genetically determined structures on the cell surface that regulate immunological reactions '' . he shared the prize with baruj benacerraf and george davis snell . he was born on october 19 , 1916 in toulouse , france to henri dausset and elisabeth dausset ( born renard ) . dausset was the youngest of four children . his father was a doctor from pyrenees and his mother was a housewife from lorraine . after world war i ended , the family moved to biarritz where jean would spend most of his childhood . his father worked at the bayonne hospital where he was a head doctor . seeing this made a great impression on jean . jean was home schooled by his mother and a tutor who would come to the house . when jean turned 11 , his family moved to paris and he began formal schooling at the lycée michel when he turned 15. after he was able to earn his baccalaureate in mathematics , he decided to study medicine at the university of paris after being convinced by his father . right after he became an extern at the paris hospitals when he turned 19 , his parents both died . he was unable to pass his internship entrance exam at the paris hospitals on his first attempt . he was about to prepare for a second attempt but then world war ii started . dausset was sent off to northern italy for a year after he was enlisted in the french army . after he spent a year there , he returned to paris , studied and passed his medical internship exam . soon after passing his exams , dausset joined the free french forces in north africa as an ambulance worker . he was first stationed in morocco but was then moved to be stationed in the more active tunisia . he got his first taste of hematology when he had to perform multiple blood transfusions on the wounded soldiers . when the war was winding down in 1944 , dausset decided to return to paris and work in the regional blood transfusion center at the saint-antoine hospital .