Liv and Maddie     liv and maddie , titled liv and maddie : cali style in its fourth season , is an american teen sitcom . it was created by john d. beck and ron hart . it originally aired on disney channel from july 19 , 2013 to march 24 , 2017. the series stars dove cameron in a dual role as identical twin sisters . they have completely different personalities . liv is a girly girl who was an actress in hollywood for four years . maddie is a tomboy who has a talent for sports . maddie 's main sport is basketball . the series is about liv having to get used to normal family life again after production on her successful television program `` sing it loud ! '' ended . it is also about the two sisters being best friends despite their different personalities and interests . after finishing a four-year stint in hollywood filming a popular television series called `` sing it loud ! `` , actress liv rooney returns to her birthplace of stevens point , wisconsin to the open arms of her family , despite being offered more roles in other shows and movies . liv decided to come home because she missed her family and wanted to see them again . she is happily reunited with identical twin sister maddie . maddie is her best friend . liv is very girly and enjoys anytime someone mentions her former career . maddie is sporty and is the captain of her school 's basketball team . the twins have two younger brothers named joey and parker . joey is a typical awkward teen . he is one year younger than the twins . parker is a clever teen with a mischievous personality and the youngest child of the rooney family . their father pete is the coach for maddie 's basketball team . he eventually achieves his dream of becoming coach for a college team in beloit , wisconsin . their mother karen is the school psychologist and later vice-principal starting in the second season . in the first three seasons , most events take place at either ridgewood high , the high school that liv , maddie , joey , and later parker , due to being a child prodigy , all attend , or the rooney residence . at the end of the third season , the rooney house collapses due to a series of tunnels created by parker and maddie gets enrolled in a college in los angeles , california . this prompts the rest of the rooneys ( except pete who remains in wisconsin to continue his coaching job ) to move to malibu , california as well , to take up residence with karen 's younger sister dena , and her daughter ruby , where the show 's fourth season takes place . a big part of the series are documentary-style cutaways where major characters and the supporting characters talk to the viewers to explain various things and their opinions on the situations in which they are featured in each episode .