Eastman Kodak     eastman kodak company was started by george eastman and henry a. strong in 1881. they made their headquarters in rochester , new york . it began as the eastman dry plate company . the company made photographic plates for photographers . it changed from a partnership to a corporation in 1884. in 1888 it changed its name again to the eastman kodak company . this is when they released their first hand-held camera called the kodak . it used a roll of photographic film which the company had started making in 1885. it was a camera simple enough for anyone to take pictures . eastman kodak re-invented photography and became an american success story . but their success would not last . at first photographers used glass plates they had to coat with an emulsion . but they had to be used within minutes of being coated . they also had to be processed into a picture right away . in 1878 , eastman successfully created dry plates that could be coated with a gelatin solution . these could be used at the photographer 's convenience . they did not require all the heavy equipment wet plates did . eastman decided to go into business selling them . he invented a machine to mass-produce dry plates . in 1888 , the company sold the first kodak box cameras . the slogan was `` you press the button , we do the rest '' . for $ 24 usd the camera came already loaded with film capable of taking 100 pictures . the camera was sent back to the factory where for $ 10 the film was developed into pictures . these cameras first used paper film but later turned to nitrocellulose film . an indexing roller to hold film was invented by david houston . it had square holes in the edge of the film to advance the film with no waste or multiple exposures . but eastman did not want to pay to license his patent . so they bought his patent in 1899. kodak kept making dry plates until that market dried up . their main profit was in film and film developing papers and chemicals . they made film for the movie industry , 16mm film for hobby filmmaking and cameras of all kinds . in the mid- 1920s they came out with color film . in 1929 kodak created motion picture film for adding sound to motion pictures .