Croatian Spring     maspok ( after masovni pokret ( croatian ) , i.e . mass movement ) or croatian spring was a nationalistic and a secessionist movement in the socialist republic of croatia , yugoslavia during the year of 1971. the movement demands were initially around exclusiоn of serbian language use and the exclusive use of the croatian language in croatia , declaration of croatia as a national state of croats and croatia as a sequel of the medieval croatian kingdom . the ultimate maspok goal was independent croatian state . the maspok movement was supported by a great part of the croatian communists , croatian republic political leadership , and the ustaše emigration in the west . there were three basic points the maspok used to attack the yugoslavia 's federal state : distribution of the croatia 's tourism industry revenue in yugoslavia , the amount of money croatia contributed to the underdeveloped yugoslav republics fund and the question of the official croatian language in croatia . maspok demanded recognition of the croatian language as the official language in croatia , its exclusive use in education , media , and the state affairs which meant expulsion the serbian language from croatia . maspok insisted on specific nature of the croats and their culture and the civilization and cultural differences between croats and other ethnic groups and ethnic minorities in yugoslavia . the movement , broadly supported by croats , demanded a separate national croatian bank , croatian army , and , separate of the yugoslavian , croatian representative in the united nations . `` matica hrvatska '' ( a croatian cultural organization ) and `` hrvatski tjednik '' ( croatian weekly newspaper ) went so far to publish a constitution draft of the new croatian state . `` matica hrvatska '' published ( november 1971 ) a full list of the maspok 's demands : croatia defined as the state of croatian people only , croatian representative in the united nations , croatian national bank and national currency , croatian army and croat conscripts serving only croatian army , croatian language used in the army , croatian state affairs , education , and media . `` matica hrvatska '' , at the time the maspok movement culmination , cancelled the work on the serbo-croatian dictionary and rejected the novi sad agreement ( about the common serbo-croatian language ) . the novi sad agreement based serbo-croatian language orthography was replaced by the croatian language orthography written by s. babic , b. finka , and m. mogus and printed by the `` matica hrvatska '' the same 1971. year . zagreb university provided a broad and a public support to the maspok political demands . the zagreb university students staged mass demonstrations in croatia in order to express their support to maspok .