Battleship Yamato     the yamato was a japanese super battleship that served in the imperial japanese navy ( ijn ) during world war ii . along with its sister ship , the musashi , they were the largest battleships ever built . yamato was built at kure , japan . she entered service on 16 december 1941. it was one of five planned super battleships although only two were built : yamato and musashi . the allies had no clue japan had built these monsters until they were first spotted . yamato was huge and displaced 62 , 315 tons . yamato had nine 18-inch guns which were the largest in the world at the time . she was long . yamado 's armor was thick . her guns were her most feared weapons . they fired shells that weighed 3,200 pounds each ( the size of a compact car ! ) . they had a range of . yamato was designed to fight and destroy us battleships . but it never faced one in battle . in the 1920s and 1930s the battleship was the ultimate power in naval warfare . but the japanese , by their attack on pearl harbor on 7 december 1941 proved aircraft carriers were now the most powerful weapon . this meant battleships were already out of date . when the war started , yamato was the flagship of the combined fleet commander isoroku yamamoto . it spent much of 1942 defending japanese shipping out of truk . torpedoed by a us submarine in 1943 it was under repair until 1944. because attack from the air was now the main threat , yamato was fitted with additional anti-aircraft guns . in june 1944 yamato took part in the battle of the philippine sea . in october yamato was in the battle of leyte gulf . during the battle she fired her guns at us escort carriers thinking they were full sized carriers . she was attacked by several us destroyers and received some damage . returning to japan in november she was again fitted with more anti-aircraft guns . by then japan no longer had the resources to keep yamato operating . in 1945 , yamato left for okinawa as part of the suicidal operation ten-go . it was an effort to attack us ships supporting the battle of okinawa . but , off the coast of kagoshima , it was sunk by u.s. aircraft on 7 april .