Concealed weapon     a concealed weapon is a dangerous weapon that is carried by a person and is hidden from view . it can also be a dangerous weapon under a person 's control that is not readily visible . the term is most often applied to handguns . a dangerous weapon is any weapon that can inflict death or serious injury on another person . various jurisdictions define what a dangerous weapon is . carrying a concealed weapon is illegal as defined by laws of many states , provinces , and countries . the usual exceptions are law enforcement officers and members of the military who carry weapons as part of their jobs . many jurisdictions may issue concealed weapons permits ( also called concealed carry permits ) giving individuals permission to carry a concealed weapon within their jurisdiction . carrying a concealed weapon ( ccw ) is the practice of carrying a handgun out of sight , hidden somewhere on a person 's body . ccw is regulated by the states in the us . the laws vary , sometimes considerably , from state to state . as of 2015 , most states grant licenses to carry handguns on a `` shall-issue '' basis to qualified applicants . shall-issue means the jurisdiction issuing the license must issue the license to anyone who is not otherwise prevented from owning a firearm . `` may-issue '' allows the jurisdiction to decide on a case-by-case basis who may be issued a license . a few states are may-issue states , while seven states allow the carrying of firearms in a concealed manner without a permit ( called constitutional-carry ) . gun laws vary considerably around the world . the larger majority of countries heavily restrict or do not allow citizens to carry firearms . penalties for carrying a concealed weapon in the us without a permit can vary by jurisdiction . in some cases it is a misdemeanor but more often it is considered a felony . in canada ccw is illegal but permitted under rare circumstances . in mexico civilians can not own guns since it has been illegal since 1968. however , most mexicans own guns , even fully automatic weapons . in south africa there are about 6 million licensed handgun owners . there is also a very large backlog of those applying for a license . illegal guns can be easily bought off the streets . about 2,000 guns are stolen per month from licensed owners making it the largest source of illegal guns .