Kevin-Prince Boateng     kevin-prince boateng ( born 6 march 1987 ) is a german footballer who plays for borussia dortmund of the fußball-bundesliga , on loan from tottenham hotspur . kevin-prince boateng has made several appearances for the german under-16 , under-19 and under-21 teams . on july 20 , 2005 , he scored a spectacular goal in a union of european football associations ( uefa ) european under-19 football championship game against greece in his side ’ s 3-0 victory . this goal was voted as the goal of the month by viewers of a popular german tv sports show . that year , he won fritz walter bronze medal as well as the best german young player of the year title . on july 27 , 2006 , kevin-prince boateng was adjudged as the fritz walter gold medal winner and the 2006 best young player in germany by a jury consisting of the german football association ( dfb ) , youth coaches and members of the dfb board . as of 2008 , he has won a total of five international caps for the german u-21 side . in 1994 kevin-prince boateng began his professional football career with the german side reinickendorfer füchse ’ s youth team . on july 1 , 1994 he moved to hertha berlin ’ s youth outfit and was soon promoted to the hertha berlin ii side . during his stint with this team that lasted for two seasons , he made a total of 29 appearances and scored five goals to his credit . in the following year , kevin-prince boateng was selected for hertha berlin ’ s first team , and he made his debut for it in a round 2 game of the 2005-06 bundesliga season against eintracht frankfurt in which he came in as a second-half substitute . his impressive performance at this game earned kevin-prince boateng his first full debut for this club in a 2-2 draw against borussia mönchengladbach in round 14 of the bundesliga season . during his two-year tenure at this club , he played 43 games , scoring 4 goals . he is thought to be the world 's biggest upcoming talent and showed that in the 2010 world cup held in south africa . kevin prince lead ghana to the quarterfinals only to be cheated by uruguay .