Tibor Sekelj     tibor sekelj ( in hungarian : `` székely tibor '' ) ( 14 february 1912 – 20 september 1988 ) was an explorer , writer and lawyer . he traveled a lot in south america , africa and asia . he spoke many languages , including esperanto , the made up international language . he was member of the academy of esperanto and honorary member of the universal association of esperanto ( uea ) . he wrote books in esperanto . he came from a jewish family . sekelj was born in spišská sobota , which was then in the austro-hungarian empire . it is now called poprad , in slovakia . his father was a veterinarian ( animal doctor ) , and the family moved around extensively . they moved to cheney , now in romania . in 1922 they moved to kikinda , serbia . he went to elementary school in kikinda . the family moved to nikšić , in montenegro where he finished high school . he went to zagreb where he studied in law at university . disinterested in practicing law , he began working as a journalist in zagreb . in 1939 he went to argentina to write about former croates who had left yugoslavia to settle in south america . he stayed there for the next 15 years as a journalist and explorer . in 1944 he was part of a trekking party that climbed to the top of highest mountain in the western hemisphere aconcagua , near argentina . he used this experience to write a novel ( story ) in spanish about aconcagua , which became a best seller there . in 1946 he undertook the first of two expeditions into the amazon jungle , the first of which produced a popular book , ( por tierra de indios } . his companion from that expedition , mary reznik -- whom he later married -- was the first white woman to have penetrated that deeply into the brazilian jungle . together they returned to the amazon in 1948 , after which he penned `` where civilization ends '' ( donde la civilizacion termina ) . the marriage produced a son , diego . in 1954 sekelj returned to yugoslavia and settled in belgrade , although he still traveled extensively . in 1962 he traveled through africa . he married erzsebet sekelj , a young woman he met on a trip through hungary . from 1972 he lived in subotica ( vojvodina ) , now in serbia . he was in charge of a museum in subotica . he died in subotica , and is buried there .