Ulleungdo     ulleungdo is a south korean island , the main part of ulleung county , north gyeongsang province , south korea , in east sea . this island is at 37°30'n 130°52'e . the part of this island is the peak of the mountain . this mountain is a large stratovolcano which rises from seafloor . the formation time of this volcanic mountain is between the cainozoic third era and the cenozoic fourth era . the highest peak of ulleungdo is seonginbong peak , 984 meters . there are nari basin and albong basin which are made by collapsing caldera crater in the northern slope . ulleungdo is a pentagon shape . the length of east and west is 10 km and the length of south , and north is 9.5 km , and the total length of seashore is about 56.5 km . the relics of the bronze age like dolmens or patternless earthenwares were unearthed in hyunpo , namsu and judongri . according to samguk sagi and samguk yusa , there was usan-guk in silla . but in june 512 , ruler lee sa bu conquered the usan-guk . in the early 1000 's , japanese called ulleungdo uruma . tribute was continued during the goryeo . in the early 11 century , after the usan-guk people who was attacked by yeojin ran away to the mainland , ulleungdo and dokdo became direct controlled territory of the goryeo . in march 1407 , the ruler of tsushima island sent envoy , presented the local products and sent back the victims for getting a approval that ruler of tsushima island administered the ulleungdo . but the king of chosun , tae jong , rejected it . in the formal term of chosun , there were a lot of damages because of japanese 's plunder . so the king of chosun , tae jong , enforced the `` empty-island '' policy . in sejong true record geographical feature papers , there is a record about ulleungdo which are called usan-guk . in 1614 , the ruler of tsushima sent a letter that they should look around the ulleungdo according to the order of tokugawa ieyasu . but the king of chosun , gwang hae gun also rejected it and issued an order that banned japanese not to come-and-go the ulleungdo . in 1618 , the government of tokugawa gave the license to otani and murikawa family to go to ulleungdo . but chosun people already lived in ulleungdo . that families complained about that to the government of tokugawa , but the government of tokugawas could not give the practical support to them . after having a controversy about ulleungdo , the japan´s feudal government ; the shogunate banned japanese to go to ulleungdo . in 1787 , the laperouse expedition party of france measured the ulleungdo at first time and they called the ulleungdo dagelet . finally in 1884 , the king of go jong removed the `` empty island '' policy and reclaimed the ulleungdo .