Night of Champions (2009)    night of champions ( 2009 ) night of champions ( 2009 ) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by world wrestling entertainment ( wwe ) , which took place on july 26 , 2009 at the wachovia center in philadelphia , pennsylvania . it was the third annual event under the night of champions name and the ninth annual event under the vengeance/night of champions chronology . similar to the previous two events , the concept of the show was that every championship in the company would be defended . it featured talent from the raw , smackdown , and ecw brands . eight matches were contested on the card . night of champions will have professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers from the `` raw '' , `` friday night smackdown '' , and `` ecw on sci fi '' brands . wrestlers will play a villain or a hero . all wrestlers will be from wwe 's raw , smackdown , and ecw brands—a storyline division in which wwe employees are assigned to a television program of the same name . the main rivalry from smackdown for night of champions is between cm punk and jeff hardy in their battle over the world heavyweight championship . one month before the show , at extreme rules , punk used his guaranteed title match he earned by winning the money in the bank ladder match against hardy ; he beat him , and won the world heavyweight title . the two had many confrontations about it which lead to the bash and a match that saw punk get disqualified for kicking the referee . then , hardy attacked punk because hardy thought punk kicked the referee on purpose . on the july 2 episode of `` superstars '' fans were told that punk had suffered a storyline eye injury . punk 's reasoning to hardy 's accusation was that he kicked the referee on accident due to his inability to clearly see jeff , who he was really trying to kick . to settle the dispute on to who the rightful champion was , smackdown general manager , theodore long , announced another match between the two at night of champions , which was accepted by both competitors .