The Hound of the Baskervilles     the hound of the baskervilles is a sherlock holmes novel . sir arthur conan doyle started writing it in 1901 and finished it in 1902. it was very popular , because fans had been waiting a long time for a new sherlock holmes story . this was because conan doyle had killed off sherlock holmes in the story `` the final problem '' , originally published in 1893 and afterwards collected in the book `` the memoirs of sherlock holmes '' . he was later revealed to be alive in `` the adventure of the empty house '' ( originally published in 1903 ) , a story in the book `` the return of sherlock holmes '' , which was released in 1905. the book tells the story of how holmes and his friend doctor watson solve the mystery of the death of sir charles baskerville . in the story , people think that he died because of a family curse , to do with an evil dog . in the end , the dog is revealed to be a trained big dog painted with glow-in-the-dark paint to make it seem evil . dr james mortimor comes to sherlock holmes and dr watson in regard to the baskerville family of devon . charles baskerville who was one of the last of his families lineage was an elderly man who took very seriously the legend of the family 's curse : in 1647 his ancestor hugo baskerville had attempted to catch a young woman whom he carried off ; the girl had died of fear while hugo was killed by a gigantic hound . charles baskerville died of a heart attack while apparently fleeing a gigantic hound . as he was unmarried and had no heirs , his estate goes to his nephew henry baskerville of canada who is arriving in london . although holmes is not supersticious he does deceide to take the case . upon meeting the heir , several odd things happen : an unsigned note is delivered to henry baskerville warning him to stay away from the moor ; then henry 's shoes beginning missing and turning up-first a new shoe and then an old one ; lastly holmes spots a stranger in a cab following henry and dr mortimor .