Battle of Gettysburg     the battle of gettysburg ( locally , with an `` ss '' sound ) , was fought july 1–3 , 1863. the battle took place in and around the town of gettysburg , pennsylvania . it was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the american civil war . gettysburg is often called the war 's turning point . union major general george g. meade 's army of the potomac stopped attacks by confederate general robert e. lee 's army of northern virginia . this ended lee 's second invasion of the north . lee began to move his men back to virginia on july 4. between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from both armies were casualties in the three-day battle . that november , a cemetery for those who died there was opened at the gettysburg national cemetery . president abraham lincoln gave a speech called the gettysburg address at the ceremony to open the cemetery and honor the dead soldiers on both sides . lee 's army won an important battle at chancellorsville in virginia in may 1863. afterwards , he led his army north through the shenandoah valley . his plan was to start his second invasion of the north ( called the gettysburg campaign ) . lee had several objectives in mind . lee hoped to force northern politicians to give up the war by going as far as harrisburg , pennsylvania , the state capital . this , he hoped , would embarrass the lincoln administration . at this point , lee was playing politics . he knew that if he was successful in pennsylvania it would encourage the northern peace movement . he hoped it would get foreign recognition for the confederacy . it could also force the union to negotiate for peace , allowing the confederate states to become an independent country . lee badly needed supplies and intended to get them in pennsylvania . in addition to being the state capital , harrisburg was also the site of camp curtin , the largest training camp for union soldiers . it was a major railroad center . more importantly it was a major supply depot and also a prisoner of war camp .