École Centrale de Lille    école centrale de lille école centrale de lille is a renowned graduate engineering school in france . it is in a campus of the university of lille ( northern france ) . its different curricula lead to the following french & european degrees : - ingénieur centralien de lille ( centralien graduate engineer masters level program ) - masters recherche & doctorat ( phd doctorate studies ) - mastères spécialisés ( ms ) - massive online open course academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in french and english languages . students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at école centrale de lille . most of the 1500 graduate engineer students at école centrale de lille live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports on a campus that is shared with 20,000 students from lille university of science and technology . école centrale de lille was founded as école des arts industriels et des mines de lille in 1854 , with support from scientists such as frédéric kuhlmann and louis pasteur . it succeeded to the municipal chairs of experimental physics , applied chemistry and mechanics that were established in 1817. it became a technical university in 1872 with the integration of the institut industriel du nord . since mid 19th century , the baccalauréat and completion of undergraduate studies have been a prerequisite for admission . the initial focus was on civil engineering , mechanical engineering , chemistry and manufacturing engineering . electrical engineering full courses were added in 1892 , automobile design has been taught from 1899 onwards . more than 200 students graduated in year 1914. aerodynamics studies started in 1930. a stress on automatic control and computers was initiated in 1957. later came courses and research in computer science ( 1957 ) , supply chain management , materials science , micro-electronics , telecommunications , nanotechnologies ( 1994 ) .