Richard II, Duke of Normandy    richard ii , duke of normandy richard ii ( † 1026 ) , called the good ( french : `` le bon '' ) , was the duke of normandy from 996 to 1026. he was the first to assume the title of duke and built up his court to resemble that of a king . he commissioned dudo of saint-quentin to write a detailed history of the norman dukes showing their and christian patronage . richard ii was the oldest son of richard i the fearless and gunnora . he succeeded his father as duke of normandy in 996. during his minority , which was the first five years of his reign , his was his uncle count ralph of ivrea . ralph put down a peasant revolt at the start of richard 's reign . richard was very religious like his overlord king robert ii of france . richard used his army to support the king against the duchy of burgundy . he formed a marriage alliance with brittany by marrying his sister hawise of normandy to geoffrey i , duke of brittany . it became a double alliance when he married geoffrey 's sister , judith of brittany . in the 980s the vikings had been raiding england again . they would then cross the english channel to normandy to sell their plunder . norman and viking relations were good . richard 's father had hired viking mercenaries in the 960s . he also allowed them safe haven in normandy . this caused problems in england and with the pope in rome . in 990 representatives of the pope negotiated a treaty between england and normandy . richard i agreed not to aid enemies of england ( including vikings ) . from 997 to 1000 a great viking army attacked wessex a number of times . in 1000 they came to normandy and were allowed to land by richard ii.. this broke the treaty between his father and the english king . in 1000-1001 the english attacked normandy on the cotentin peninsula . the raid was led by king ethelred the unready of england . ethelred had given orders that richard be captured , shackled and brought to england . but the english were not prepared for the rapid response of the norman cavalry and were quickly defeated .