Robert I, Duke of Normandy    robert i , duke of normandy robert the magnificent ( ) ( † 1035 ) , was the sixth duke of normandy from 1027 until he died returning from a pilgrimage . robert 's reign was a period in the history of normandy . he was the father of william the conqueror , who in 1066 became king of england . robert was the second son of richard ii of normandy and judith . he was probably born between 1005 and 1010. their father had decided that the older son , richard iii , would succeed him as duke . robert would became count of hiémois . in august 1026 their father , richard ii , died and richard iii became the fifth duke . but once richard iii began to reign , robert was not satisfied with his position . he raided the diocese of his uncle robert ii , archbishop of rouen . he also captured his brother 's city of falaise . robert 's rebellion lasted through the end of 1026 and into early 1027. finally richard iii laid to falaise and brought the walls down . robert surrendered and promised his . when richard iii died shortly after robert 's surrender , there were suspicions that robert might have caused his brother 's death . robert was accepted , however , as the sixth duke following his brother . but the robert i had started against his brother richard iii did n't stop when the two made peace . there were still many feuds which had started between neighboring barons . these continued in normandy during much of robert ’ s reign . it was also during this time that many of the lesser left normandy to seek their fortunes in southern italy and elsewhere . soon after he became duke and possibly in revenge for supporting his brother , robert i gathered an army and began raiding the lands of his uncle , robert ii , archbishop of rouen . only a brief allowed his uncle to leave normandy in exile . the archbishop then placed an of on robert and all of normandy . the edict was only removed when archbishop robert was allowed to return and all his lands were restored . robert also attacked another powerful church leader , his cousin hugo d'ivry , bishop of bayeux . robert banished him from normandy . robert also seized a number of church properties belonging to the abbey of fécamp .