Geoffrey I, Count of Anjou    geoffrey i , count of anjou geoffrey i of anjou ( 930–987 ) , called greymantle ( ) , was a french nobleman who was the count of anjou from 960 to 987. he greatly increased the power and influence of anjou . geoffrey was the oldest son of fulk ii of anjou and his first wife gerberga. < ref name= '' esiii/4-116 '' > detlev schwennicke , `` europäische stammtafeln|europäische stammtafeln : stammtafeln zur geschichte der europäischen staaten '' , neue folge , band iii teilband 1 ( j. a. stargardt , marburg , germany , 1984 ) , tafel 116 < /ref > he succeeded his father as count of anjou about 960. geoffrey married adele of meaux ( 934–982 ) . adele was the daughter of robert of vermandois and adelais de vergy . on her mother 's side she was a granddaughter of king robert i of france . on her father 's side she was a direct descendant of charlemagne . her cousin was hugh capet , king of the franks . through this marriage the angevins joined the highest ranks of western french nobility . geoffrey started by making his power base the of angers . geoffrey carefully placed his loyal followers on lands surrounding the city . this was to protect his own territories . the lands of the abbeys of saint-aubin and saint-serge in angers provided revenues for his most faithful men . geoffrey told both his sons , fulk and maurice : `` no house is weak that has many friends . therefore i you to hold dear those who have been friends . '' geoffrey used several ways of expanding his power and control . creating family connections was one way . for example his father had controlled nantes by marrying the countess . geoffrey brought nantes under control by making count guerech accept him as overlord . for some time the counts of maine and the bishops of le mans had been fighting among themselves . geoffrey saw a way to take advantage of the situation . about 971 geoffrey secured the diocese of le mans for his ally and friend bishop seinfroy . then , in 973 , geoffrey arranged the marriage of his daughter ermengarde-gerberga to conan i of rennes , the count of maine . but rather than act like an ally conan began to oppose geoffrey . in 982 the two met at the first battle of conquereuil where geoffrey defeated conan .