IPv4 address shortage     internet protocol version 4 ( ipv4 ) has roughly 4 billion ip addresses . this is a problem because there are more than 4 billion internet-connected computers in the world . this has led to a shortage of ipv4 addresses . the long term solution is to switch to internet protocol version 6 ( ipv6 ) . ipv6 has trillions of trillions of addresses , enough to give every computer in the world a unique ip address . unfortunately , ipv6 is mostly incompatible with ipv4 , and implementing it often requires replacing equipment such as routers . not all isps currently offer ipv6 . there are several backward compatibility protocols such as protocol 41 and teredo that allow a computer with only an ipv4 address to obtain an ipv6 address . network address translation ( nat ) splits a single public ipv4 address into multiple private ipv4 addresses . it is considered a short term solution because it does not usually allow incoming connections without manual configuration of port forwarding . carrier-grade network address translation ( cgn or cgnat ) is network address translation done by the internet service provider ( isp ) . it is a short-term solution to provide ipv4 access where the isp has more customers than public ip addresses . in this setup , multiple customers share a single public ipv4 address . cgn has the major drawback that it does not allow incoming connections at all , because the address translator does not know which customer an incoming connection was intended for . this makes it impossible or very difficult to host services such as websites or file servers . it also causes problems with some online games , online security cameras , and bittorrent . most land-line isps do n't use cgn yet , but mobile providers often do . the address block 100.64.0.0/10 is reserved for cgn , although many isps improperly use 10.0.0.0/8 instead . isps that use cgn usually offer a public ipv4 address to customers that request one . they may offer this for free , charge a one-time fee , or charge a monthly or yearly fee . in the future they might not offer public ipv4 addresses or might charge a large fee for them , due to supply and demand .