Mercia     mercia was one of the anglo-saxon kingdoms of the heptarchy . it was in the region now known as the english midlands . mercia was centered on the valley of the river trent and its tributaries . settled by angles , their name is the root of the name 'england ' . their neighbors included other angles , saxons and all from germany . mercia bordered on northumbria , wessex , sussex , essex and east anglia . to the west were britons in powys and the kingdoms of southern wales . archaeological discoveries show the first settlements were in the trent river valley . the original kingdom of mercia had a variety of different kinds of land . most of it would not have been the first choice of anyone wishing to settle there . not if better land was available elsewhere . the name 'mercia ' comes from the tribal name `` mierce '' , which means 'boundary folk . ' it was probably a name already known in the english midlands and was adopted by the angles who settled there . the angles , according to bede , came from `` angulus '' in northern germany . they were of the same stock as the east anglians and the northumbrians . the invasion of england by the germanic tribes was relatively quick . by england was a large collection of small kingdoms each having a warlord or petty king . within 200 years of their arrival in england , the late seventh century , emerged the heptarchy : the seven kingdoms of anglo-saxon england . mercia was the dominant power among the anglo-saxons from the middle of the seventh century to the early ninth century . several mercian noblewomen played an important role in mercian affairs . this is in contrast to wessex where women rarely had an active role in the government . during the seventh and eighth centuries mercia struggled mainly with northumbria . by the ninth century wessex was the dominant power in the region . king egbert of wessex ( 802–839 ) was the overlord and for the first time passed this position down to his heirs . from this time on until they ceased to exist as a kingdom , mercia was a vassal kingdom to wessex . in the last quarter of the ninth century mercia lost much of its territory in the midlands to danish settlers .