Ealdorman     an ealdorman ( from old english `` ealdorman '' , lit . `` elder man '' ; plural : `` ealdormen '' ) is a term used for a high-ranking royal official who was in charge of one or more shires . the title dates from the sixth century and was in use up to the time of king canute . their position was a combination of administrator , judge and military . ealdormen were the of the later english earls . an ealdorman was an appointee of the king who governed one or more shires or territories . the ealdorman was also responsible for leading his local fyrd ( part-time army ) in battle . but these armies owed their first to their ealdorman . very often the support of one or more ealdormen could help a royal candidate to become king . in many cases ealdormen succeeded yet kept the same rights . several had been underkings and were members of the royal family . in early anglo-saxon documents ealdormen are also termed `` , `` '' , or `` in documents of the time . the term first appears in the anglo-saxon chronicle under the year 568. but it 's use probably predates that entry . as early as the seventh century ealdormen were seen as judges . but the development of the shire may have come later . as ealdormanries began to become ( passed down from father to son ) the families who held them became more and more powerful . several rose in power second only to the king . they were described in documents by the term `` '' . in the eighth century these occurred in northumbria , mercia and kent . the term `` patricius '' was roughly the same as the office of mayor of the palace in the merovingian dynasty of frankish kings . this could be dangerous for a king to have someone so powerful exercising power in his name . in the eighth and ninth centuries the most dangerous ealdormen were those who claimed royal descent . they could and in some cases did rise up against a king and took the throne themselves . in the very basic royal administrations of the time a king needed to depend on his ealdormen . a king could create ealdormen from his own family . but he could only fill only a portion of the ealdormanries in that way . as the families of ealdormen banded together in ties of mutual support it became more difficult to remove an ealdorman .