Bukit Timah Nature Reserve     bukit timah nature reserve , which is situated on bukit timah hill , is the largest of the remaining patches of primary forest in singapore . singapore ’ s original tropical primary rainforest ecosystem makes up half of the reserve . at the summit of the hill , there is a rock showing the height , latitude and longtitude . btnr is located just beside the central catchment nature reserve , separated by the bukit timah expressway ( bke ) . btnr the only remaining primary forest in singapore , and covers a total area of 163 hectares , occupying just 0.2 % of singapore 's land . btnr is easily accessible from dairy farm nature park , as well as the macritchie reservoir in the neighbouring central catchment nature reserve . dairy farm nature reserve is connected to the yellow trail via the dairy farm loop , while the macritchie reservoir is connected to btnr by the kampong trail . in 1825 , one of singapore 's first colonial administrators , john crawfurd , climbed the hill . he commented that the surrounding forest was so dense that sailing to calcutta was almost as easy as reaching bukit timah . in 1843 , the access road to the summit was built . 40 years later , btnr became the first forest reserve in singapore to be conserved . the reserve has been protected by law since 1939 , when the reserve was threatened by nearby granite quarrying at hindhede quarry . till the late 1980s , btnr was still part of the ccnr . then , the government decided to build the bke through the ccnr , thus splitting the ccnr and forming the btnr . in 1991 , the newly formed nparks , which manage singapore 's parks , nature reserves , and roadside trees , conducted a visitor survey . after gathering all the feedback , they began to develop facilities to improve visitors ' experience at the reserve . and at the same time , reduce the damage that visitors might cause to the reserve . over time , trails started to penetrate parts of the forest which were richer in biodiversity , causing plant and animal numbers to decrease . the ground surface was also damaged and soil erosion occurred . as a result , those trails were closed , and the main trails were upgraded .