Pilgrim of Eternity     `` pilgrim of eternity '' is an episode of `` star trek '' that was created by fans . it was released in 2013. it is the first in a planned web series , `` star trek continues '' . it is a sequel to the original series episode , `` who mourns for adonais ? '' . cast . - vic mignogna - captain james t. kirk - todd haberkorn - mr. spock - larry nemecek - dr. mccoy - grant imahara - mr. sulu - chris doohan - chief engineer montgomery scott ( chris doohan is the son of actor james doohan . james first played scott on tv . ) - wyatt lenhart - ensign chekhov - kim stinger - lieutenant uhura - michael forest - apollo , playing his role again from the original series episode - michele specht - dr. elise mckennah - marina sirtis - computer ( voice ) ( sirtis acted in `` '' ) the crew of the u.s.s . enterprise are looking into mysterious energy drains from power stations . they find an alien artifact , which begins to draw power from the ship . they destroy the artifact to save themselves , just after spock ( played by todd haberkorn ) detects two life forms on it . the two forms then materialize on the bridge . one of them is the alien known in earth 's history as the greek god apollo ( played by michael forest ) . the crew had met him only a couple of years earlier , but he has now aged . he says he was exposed to the energy draining properties of the realm . this was the destroyed structure . it was built by his race to live in forever . it had malfunctioned and killed all the others of his race . he says he no longer wishes to have people worship him again . after a brief stay in the sick-bay , he starts to want people to idolize him for his singing and storytelling . captain kirk ( played by vic mignogna ) demands to speak with him about his behaviors . apollo uses his telekinetic powers on the captain and others to make them worship him . meanwhile , the remains of the realm are still causing difficulties . a crew member dies while he and sulu ( played by grant imahara of `` mythbusters '' ) are removing debris from the hull of the enterprise .