Enhanced geothermal system     an enhanced geothermal system ( egs ) is a geothermal energy system that can make electrical energy when natural underground water is not there . for a long time , geothermal energy could only be produced when there were hot rocks , underground water , and cracks in rocks all together in one area . now , new ways of getting this power source are being created . areas that can possibly be used for energy need to be altered by people to make the energy usable . these areas may need either underground water and/or cracks , or fracture network , in rocks . enhanced geothermal systems allow for geothermal energy to be outside normal geothermal areas like active plate boundaries to less active areas like the western united states . process and development . 1. land must be surveyed - what is the [ temperature ] of underground rocks ? - is there a good fracture network ? - is there water that is naturally there ? - what is needed to make a working egs 1. make needed changes to system - in order to first get to the hot rocks , holes must be carefully dug 1000 ’ s of meters below the surface of the earth . the wells can not be within 40 meters of each other so there is no heat stealing between wells . water is then poured down the holes at a controlled , scientifically determined rate for both fracture network creation and use in the energy production . cracks or fractures are created due to induced seismicity , or the forced reopening of cracks due to water pressure causing small seismic events rarely felt on the surface . once a good enough crack system is created , the heated water can then be pumped out from a production well and into the power plant to be using in the chosen energy extraction process and circulated through again . in order to increase the likeliness that the water will flow in the direction of the production well , microholes arrays can be drilled to allow for a higher probability that fractures will connect in the right pathway for energy production . these holes are less than 4 inches wide and reach out from water adding wells and water taking out wells .