Niggers in the White House     `` niggers in the white house '' was a racist poem that first appeared in many american newspapers between 1901 and 1903. the author wrote it because he did not like booker t. washington , an african-american political leader , teacher and author , attending a dinner at the white house . washington had been invited by president theodore roosevelt , who was white . many years later , in 1929 , the poem appeared again . this was after african-american congressman oscar depriest 's wife went to a tea for congressional wives at the white house . she had been invited by first lady lou hoover . many white people , especially in the southern united states , did not like either visit . they held the opinion then that african-american people should not be involved in government affairs . the poem has fourteen stanzas . each stanza has four lines . the second and fourth line of each stanza rhymes . the bad word `` nigger '' is seen many times in the poem . nobody knows who wrote it . booker t. washington was an african american born into slavery . he was freed in 1865 and rose to become an educator and a national leader of african americans . on october 16 , 1901 , president theodore roosevelt asked washington to have dinner with his family at the white house . it was a working dinner , roosevelt 's intention was to appoint washington to advise him on issues of race . a family friend from colorado , philip stewart was also there . a reporter from the ap wire asked the president about his appointments he was going to announce the next day . but the story that appeared in the ap wire read : `` booker t. washington , of tuskegee , alabala , dined with the president last evening . '' this caused some shock among many white people . the president of the united states had sat down to dinner with a black man , a former slave at that . african americans had visited the white house before but had never been asked to dine there . washington had dined with president mckinley previously which also caused an uproar at that time . this time segregationalists in the u.s. congress were outraged . senator `` pitchfork '' bill tillman of south carolina said , `` the action will necessitate our killing a thousand niggers in the south before they will learn their place again . ''