Paulinus of York     paulinus ( also st. paulinus ) ( died 644 ) was the first bishop of york . he was named archbishop of york by the pope , but had left northumbria before the news reached him . he then became the bishop of rochester , in kent . after his death he was venerated as a saint . paulinus was a monk living in rome when he was sent to britain in 601 by pope gregory i. he was part of a group of missionaries sent to aid augustine in his mission as the first archbishop of canterbury . little is known of paulinus ' in kent . but 24 years later he was the chaplain to ethelberga of kent , daughter of king athelbert i of kent . she was promised in marriage to king edwin of northumbria . in order to marry a christian woman he promised he would consider converting to christianity himself . as part of the agreement her chaplain paulinus came north to northumbria with her . before leaving canterbury in 625 , paulinus was consecrated a bishop by justus , archbishop of canterbury . paulinus was the first bishop of york . he had little success in converting the pagans for the first year . in 626 , an assassin named eumer was sent by cwichelm of wessex to kill king edwin . eumer found the king at his royal estate on the river derwent on easter day . pretending to have a message from his master he was allowed to see the king . he had a two-edged knife treated with poison and tried to attack king edwin . but he killed the king 's thane and managed to only wound the king . that evening his first child was born , a daughter named eanfled . in front of bishop paulinus king edwin prayed to his gods in thanks for the safe delivery of his child . paulinus told him that it was `` his '' prayers to god that gave the queen a safe and almost painless delivery . the king was very pleased with this explanation made paulinus a promise . if god would grant him a victory over his enemies who tried to assassinate him , he would accept christianity and be baptised . as a guarantee of his promise he allowed his newborn daughter to become christian . she was the first of the northumbrians to be baptised . the baptism took place at pentecost and in the ceremony several members of the royal family were also baptised .