Monkwearmouth–Jarrow Abbey     monkwearmouth–jarrow was a combination of two english monasteries run as a single community . both were founded by benedict biscop . monkwearmouth , built first , was a magnificent example of the roman style of architecture . it housed one of the first stained glass works in england . jarrow became the center of anglo-saxon learning in the north of england and contained the largest library in anglo-saxon england . bede , the great anglo-saxon scholar , studied , taught and wrote there . the sister anglo-saxon monasteries were the uk nomination for world heritage site status in 2011. in 674 benedict biscop , a northumbrian nobleman , built a monastery known as monkwearmouth . egfrith , king of northumbria gave him fifty hides of land at the mouth of the river wear . this monastery would be dedicated to saint peter and came to be called st. peter 's at monkwearmouth . benedict wanted his monastery to be a center of both learning and religion . benedict used frankish stonemasons who he brought over to england to construct the monastery . monkwearmouth was the first ( and jarrow the second ) church structures to be built of stone in england . benedict them brought over glassmakers from frankia to fit the windows of the church and chapels with fine stained glass . they established a workshop there at monkwearwolf . within a year the monastery was completed . in 678 a letter from pope agatho exempted the monastery from external control . benedict got all the , sacred vessels , decorations and . some he found locally while others he bought in francia and rome . in 682 king egfrith gave another forty hides of land to benedict for a second monastery . it was to be at the mouth of the river trent at jarrow . the dedication ceremony for jarrow abbey was held on 23 april 685. named for saint paul when the sister monastery was completed benedict assigned ceolfrith to the abbot . bede , who was about ten years old at the time , was one of the monks who went with him . king egfrid , who was at the dedication , died in battle against the picts less than a month later . the two sister abbeys , only seven miles apart , were thought of as one .