Aethelthryth     aethelthryth or etheldreda ( about 636 – june 23 , 679 ) was an anglo-saxon saint . she was also an east anglian princess and abbess of ely . aethelthryth was born in east anglia ( now suffolk ) . she was one of the four daughters of anna of east anglia . all of these women became nuns and founded abbeys . she was a beautiful young girl who wanted to devote herself to the church and took a vow to remain a virgin . when the `` '' tondberht of the south gyrwas . asked for her hand in marriage her parents said yes , but aethelthryth refused . though she was married she resolved to keep her solomn vow . upon his death in 655 , she retired to the isle of ely , which she had received from her husband as a gift . aethelthryth was then married to ecgfrith of northumbria in 660. ecgfrith was a younger son of king oswiu of northumbria and his wife enfleda . shortly after ecgfrith became king , aethelthryth asked her husband if she could become a nun . she was encouraged by bishop wilfrid to remain . this caused friction between ecgfrith and bishop wilfrid . one story tells that ecgfrith first agreed that she should continue to remain a virgin but in about 672 he wished to have an heir . he tried to bribe wilfrid to convince the queen to give him an heir . this failed and the king tried to take his queen from her convent . she fled back to ely with two nuns and managed to evade capture . the legend says that she escaped due to the miraculous rising of the tide . another version of the legend stated that she stopped on the journey at 'stow ' and hid under an ash tree which suddenly came from her staff after she planted it in the ground . this came to be known as 'st aethelthryth 's stow ' , when a church was built to commemorate this event . stow minster contains a stained glass window that portrays the legend . ecgfrith later married eormenburg and expelled wilfrid from his kingdom in 678. according to the `` anglo-saxon chronicle '' , aethelthryth founded a double monastery at ely in 673 , which was later destroyed in the danish invasion of 870. she lived at st. ely for the remainder of her life in pious devotion . she died of the plague . there is a hymn that was written in her honor .