Shotgun Sports     shotgun sports is a competitive shooting sport involving shotguns . shotgun sports include several different events , each with different rules . the general goal of a shotgun event is to break a clay target , but the targets are thrown in different manners depending on the game . in sporting clays , a shooter will walk through a course generally consisting of ten stations . each station will have two targets that are thrown as a true pair or as a report pair ( one thrown on pull command and one thrown on gun fire ) . sporting clay courses are generally scored out of a 100. trap is another clay target event . a game of trap is scored out of 25 , and a full trap event generally consists of 4 trap games , or 100 targets . in this event , a team of 5 shooters lines up behind a trap house . inside the trap house is a pivoting arm that throws a clay out at a random direction when 'pull ' is called . to vary the difficulty of this game , shooters can stand farther back from the house . in the skeet shooting event , a shooter moves around a field in a semi circle . skeet , like trap , is also a 25 target game , with skeet events generally consisting of four games . there are 8 stations on the field . on one end of a field is a high house , and on the other end of the field , there is a low house . on station 1 , 2 , 6 , and 7 a high single , low single , and double are shot . on stations 3 , 4 , and 5 a high single and low single are shot . station 8 is in between the high and low house . at this station , the shooter faces the high house , shoots a high single , then turns and faces the low house to shoot a low single . this totals 24 targets . the last target , to make 25 , comes from what is referred to as the option . the option is a target that is shot after the first target that is missed . if the shooter misses the high bird on station 1 , the high bird is shot again . if the shooter makes it all the way around the field without missing a bird , a second low single is shot on station 8 , totaling a perfect 25 .