Battle of Lewes     the battle of lewes was an important battle in the history of england . it was fought near the town of lewes , in sussex , england . the battle took place on 14 may 1264. it was one of two main battles of the conflict known as the second barons ' war . the two armies that met in the battle were led by king henry iii of england and a rebel leader , simon de montfort , 6th earl of leicester . henry iii 's son , prince edward , fought on his side . the battle came about because many of the leading noblemen of england were unhappy with the way king henry was ruling the country . they wanted more involvement in the government . the barons voted to hold a parliament regularly so that they could discuss subjects such as taxation . king henry would not agree to this , and so both sides started to raise armies . when the two sides met at lewes two days before , simon de montfort tried to arrange a truce with the king . king henry refused and so both sides got ready to fight a battle . the king 's army was nearly twice as big as the rebel army . the battle began when the baronial forces attacked the king 's . when the fighting started , it looked as though the king 's army would win easily . prince edward , who was only 25 , was headstrong and made one big mistake . edward was in charge of the cavalry , who did well in the battle but then chased some of the rebels who were running away . by the time they came back to the battlefield , the rebels had managed to win the battle . with edward off chasing foot soldiers , henry was forced to attack using his two remaining divisions . henry led one , the other was led by his brother , richard , earl of cornwall . henry 's division fought until driven back by the baronial reserve forces . cornwall 's division did not do well from the start . cornwall fled the field and hid in a windmill but was quickly captured by the barons . as a result of the battle , king henry iii was forced to sign a document called the mise of lewes . this gave the rebel barons what they wanted . a year later the barons were defeated at the battle of evesham .